To provide population norms for the Euro-QoL-5D (EQ-5D) according to age, sex, ethnicity and language version using a representative sample of adults aged 18 years and above in the Singapore population.A total of 5,594 respondents who completed the self-administrated paper-based EQ-5D in the Singapore Mental Health Study were included in this study. Socio-demographic characteristics were captured using a structured questionnaire.The mean age of the sample was 40 years, females comprised 52.2 % of the sample and 78 % were of Chinese descent. Pain/discomfort was the most frequently reported problem (15.3 %) followed by anxiety/depression (8.2 %), whilst self-care (0.5 %) was the least frequently reported problem in the Singapore population. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that younger age, higher income, those employed and those administered English version of the questionnaire were significantly associated with higher EQ-5D index.This article provides important population norms for the EQ-5D for measuring health-related quality of life (HRQOL) both in clinical settings and in the research context. Our results suggest that socio-demographic factors should be taken into account when assessing HRQOL among adults in Singapore.While the impact of various treatments on myeloma patients' health-related quality of life (HRQL) has been reported, the impact of a treatment-free interval (TFI) is currently unclear. The aims of this study were to assess if (1) a TFI is associated with a better HRQL vs. other treatment phases and (2) the length of the TFI influences HRQL.A cross-sectional postal survey was conducted in the UK. The survey was sent to 605 multiple myeloma patients via the charity Myeloma UK and asked patients to rate their HRQL using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30), EORTC QLQ-MY20 and the EQ-5D. The results were analysed using ordinary least squares regression.Surveys of 402 (67 %) were returned; 370 (61 %) were considered eligible for analysis. Results demonstrated that being in a first TFI relative to other treatment phases and experiencing a longer TFI were significantly associated with better HRQL as assessed by various domains of the QLQ-C30, MY20 and EQ-5D.Patients enjoy better HRQL when in their first TFI, and the length of the TFI also positively impacts on HRQL This information may be important for patients and their physicians making treatment decisions and has implications for treatment protocols incorporating extended therapy.Despite advances in technology and understanding in spinal physiology, reoperation for symptomatic same-level recurrent stenosis continues to occur. Although revision lumbar surgery is effective, attention has turned to the question of the utility and value of revision decompression and fusion procedures. To date, an analysis of cost and heath state gain associated with revision lumbar surgery for recurrent same-level lumbar stenosis has yet to be described. The authors set out to assess the 2-year comprehensive cost of revision surgery and determine its value in the treatment of same-level recurrent stenosis.Forty-two patients undergoing revision decompression and instrumented fusion for same-level recurrent stenosis-associated leg and back pain were included in this study. Two-year total back-related medical resource utilization, missed work, and health state values (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], calculated from the EQ-5D with US valuation) were assessed. Two-year resource use was multiplied by unit costs based on Medicare national allowable payment amounts (direct cost), and patient and caregiver workday losses were multiplied by the self-reported gross-of-tax wage rate (indirect cost). Mean total 2-year cost per QALY gained after revision surgery was assessed.The mean (± SD) interval between prior and revision surgery was 4.16 ± 4.64 years. Bone morphogenetic protein was used in 7 cases of revision arthrodesis (16.7%). A mean cumulative 2-year gain of 0.84 QALY was observed after revision surgery. The mean total 2-year cost of revision fusion was $49,431 ± $7583 (surgery cost $21,060 ± $4459; outpatient resource utilization cost $9748 ± $5292; indirect cost $18,623 ± $9098). Revision decompression and extension of fusion was associated with a mean 2-year cost per QALY gained of $58,846.In the authors' practice, revision decompression and fusion provided a significant gain in health state utility for patients with symptomatic same-level recurrent stenosis, with a 2-year cost per QALY gained of $58,846. When indicated, revision surgery for same-level recurrent stenosis is a valuable treatment option for patients experiencing back and leg pain secondary to this disease. The authors' findings provide a value measure of surgery that can be compared with the results of future cost-per-QALY-gained studies of medical management or alternative surgical approaches.Adjacent segment disease (ASD) may occur as a long-term consequence of spinal fusion and is associated with significant back and leg pain. Surgical management of symptomatic ASD consists of neural decompression and extension of fusion. However, conflicting results have been reported with respect to the long-term clinical effectiveness of revision surgery in this setting. We set out to comprehensively assess the long-term clinical outcome after revision surgery and determine its effectiveness in the treatment of adjacent segment disease.Fifty patients undergoing revision surgery for ASD-associated back and leg pain were included in this study. Baseline and 2-year Visual Analog Scale-Back Pain (VAS-BP), Visual Analog Scale-Leg Pain (VAS-LP), Oswestry Disability Index, physical and mental quality of life (Short Form-12 [SF-12] physical and mental component score [PCS and MCS]) and health-state utility (EuroQol [EQ-5D]) were assessed.A sustained improvement in VAS-BP (8.72 ± 1.85 vs. 3.92 ± 2.84, P = 0.001), VAS-LP (6.30 ± 3.90 vs. 3.02 ± 3.03, P = 0.001), Oswestry Disability Index (28.72 ± 9.64 vs. 18.48 ± 11.31, P = 0.001), SF-12 PCS (26.89 ± 8.85 vs. 35.58 ± 11.97, P = 0.001) and SF-12 MCS (44.66 ± 12.85 vs. 53.16 ± 9.46, P = 0.001) was observed 2 years after revision surgery, with a cumulative mean 2-year gain of 0.76 quality-adjusted life-years (EQ-5D). Median (interquartile range) time to narcotic independence and return to work was 1.7 (1.0-8.0) months and 2.0 (1.0-4.75) months, respectively.Patients undergoing decompression and extension of fusion for adjacent segment disease-associated back and leg pain reported long-term improvement in pain, disability, and both physical and mental quality of life, suggesting that revision surgery is a highly effective treatment strategy in this patient population.Despite advances in technology and understanding in spinal physiology, reoperation for symptomatic adjacent-segment disease (ASD), same-level recurrent stenosis, and pseudarthrosis in elderly patients continues to occur. While revision lumbar surgery is effective, attention has turned to questions on the utility and value of the revision decompression and fusion procedure. To date, an analysis of the cost and health state gain associated with revision lumbar surgery in elderly patients with symptomatic pseudarthrosis, ASD, or same-level recurrent lumbar stenosis has yet to be performed. The aim of this study was to assess the long-term outcomes and cost-effectiveness of revision surgery in elderly patients with recurrent or persistent back and leg pain.After reviewing their institutional database, the authors found 69 patients 65 years of age and older who had undergone revision decompression and instrumented fusion for back and leg pain associated with pseudarthrosis (17 patients), same-level recurrent stenosis (24 patients), or ASD (28 patients) and included them in this study. Total 2-year back-related medical resource utilization and health state values (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], calculated from the EQ-5D, the EuroQol-5D health survey, with US valuation) were assessed. Two-year resource use was multiplied by unit costs based on Medicare national allowable payment amounts. The mean total 2-year cost per QALY gained after revision surgery was assessed.The mean (± standard deviation) time between the index surgery and revision surgery was 3.51 ± 3.63 years. A mean cumulative 2-year gain of 0.35 QALY was observed after revision surgery. The mean total 2-year cost of revision surgery was $28,256 ± $3000 (ASD: $28,829 ± $3812, pseudarthrosis: $28,069 ± $2508, same-level recurrent stenosis: $27,871 ± $2375). Revision decompression and extension of fusion was associated with a mean 2-year cost of $80,594 per QALY gained.Revision decompression and fusion provided a significant gain in health state utility for elderly patients with symptomatic pseudarthrosis, same-level recurrent stenosis, or ASD, with a mean 2-year cost of $80,594 per QALY gained. When indicated, revision surgery for symptomatic ASD, same-level recurrent stenosis, and pseudarthrosis is a valuable treatment option for elderly patients experiencing persistent back and leg pain. Findings in this study provided a value measure of surgery that can be compared with future cost-per-QALY-gained studies of medical management or alternative surgical approaches.We assessed the associations between multimorbidity and health-related quality of life (HRQL), and healthcare utilization, based on 16 common self-reported chronic conditions.A cross-sectional questionnaire survey including the EQ-5D was conducted in a sample of the general population of adults (≥18 years) living in Alberta, Canada. Multiple linear and logistic regressions were used to assess the association between multiple chronic conditions and HRQL, hospitalization and emergency department (ED) use.A total of 4,946 respondents reported their HRQL, noting problems mostly with pain or discomfort (48.0%). All chronic conditions were associated with a clinically important reduction in HRQL, the highest burden with anxiety or depression (-0.19, 95% CI -0.21, -0.16) and chronic pain (-0.19, 95% CI -0.21, -0.17). Multimorbidity was associated with a clinically important reduction in the EQ-5D index score (-0.12, 95% CI -0.14, -0.11) and twice the likelihood of being hospitalized (OR = 2.2, 95% CI 1.7, 2.9) or having an ED visit (OR = 1.8, 95% CI 1.4, 2.2).Pain or discomfort is a common problem in people living with chronic conditions, and the existence of multimorbidity in these individuals is associated with a reduction in the HRQL as well as frequent hospitalization and emergency department visits.Comparative effectiveness research in spine surgery is still a rarity. In this study, pain alleviation and quality of life (QoL) improvement after lumbar total disc arthroplasty (TDA) and anterior lumbar interbody fusion (ALIF) were anonymously compared by surgeon and implant.A total of 534 monosegmental TDAs from the SWISSspine registry were analyzed. Mean age was 42 years (19-65 years), 59% were females. Fifty cases with ALIF were documented in the international Spine Tango registry and used as concurrent comparator group for the pain analysis. Mean age was 46 years (21-69 years), 78% were females. The average follow-up time in both samples was 1 year. Comparison of back/leg pain alleviation and QoL improvement was performed. Unadjusted and adjusted probabilities for achievement of minimum clinically relevant improvements of 18 VAS points or 0.25 EQ-5D points were calculated for each surgeon.Mean preoperative back pain decreased from 69 to 30 points at 1 year (ØΔ 39pts) after TDA, and from 66 to 27 points after ALIF (ØΔ 39pts). Mean preoperative QoL improved from 0.34 to 0.74 points at 1 year (ØΔ 0.40pts). There were surgeons with better patient selection, indicated by lower adjusted probabilities reflecting worsening of outcomes if they had treated an average patient sample. ALIF had similar pain alleviation than TDA.Pain alleviation after TDA and ALIF was similar. Differences in surgeon's patient selection based on pain and QoL were revealed. Some surgeons seem to miss the full therapeutic potential of TDA by selecting patients with lower symptom severity.The Swiss Federal Office of Public Health demanded a nationwide HTA-registry for cervical total disc arthroplasty (TDA), to decide about its reimbursement. The goal of the SWISSspine registry is to generate evidence about the safety and efficiency of cervical TDA.Three hundred thirty-two cases treated between 3.2005 and 6.2006 who were eligible for 5 years follow-ups were included in the study. Follow-up rates for 3-6 months, 1, 2 and 5 years were 84.6, 74.4, 50.6 and 64.8 %, respectively. Outcome measures were neck and arm pain, medication, quality of life, intraoperative and postoperative complication and revision rates. In addition, segmental mobility, ossification, adjacent and distant segment degeneration were analyzed at the 5-year follow-up.There was significant, clinically relevant and lasting reduction of neck (preop/postop 60/21 VAS points) and arm pain (preop/postop VAS 67/17) and a consequently decreased analgesics consumption and quality of life improvement (preop/postop 0.39/0.82 EQ-5D points) until the 5-year follow-up. The rates for intraoperative and early postoperative complications were 0.6 and 7.2 %, respectively. In 0.6 % an early and in 3.9 % a late revision surgery was performed. At the 5-year follow-up, the average range of motion of the mobile segments (88.2 %) was 10.2°. In 40.7 % of the patients osteophytes at least potentially affecting range of motion were seen.Cervical TDA appeared as safe and efficient in long-term pain alleviation, consequent reduction of pain killer consumption and in improvement of quality of life. The improvement is stable over the 5 years postoperative period. The vast majority of treated segments remained mobile after 5 years, although 40.7 % of patients showed osteophytes.Research on the relationship between Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) and physical activity (PA), to date, have rarely investigated how this relationship differ across objective and subjective measures of PA. The aim of this paper is to explore the relationship between HRQoL and PA, and examine how this relationship differs across objective and subjective measures of PA, within the context of a large representative national survey from England.Using a sample of 5,537 adults (40-60 years) from a representative national survey in England (Health Survey for England 2008), Tobit regressions with upper censoring was employed to model the association between HRQoL and objective, and subjective measures of PA controlling for potential confounders. We tested the robustness of this relationship across specific types of PA. HRQoL was assessed using the summary measure of health state utility value derived from the EuroQol-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) whilst PA was assessed via subjective measure (questionnaire) and objective measure (accelerometer-actigraph model GT1M). The actigraph was worn (at the waist) for 7 days (during waking hours) by a randomly selected sub-sample of the HSE 2008 respondents (4,507 adults--16 plus years), with a valid day constituting 10 hours. Analysis was conducted in 2010.Findings suggest that higher levels of PA are associated with better HRQoL (regression coefficient: 0.026 to 0.072). This relationship is consistent across different measures and types of PA although differences in the magnitude of HRQoL benefit associated with objective and subjective (regression coefficient: 0.047) measures of PA are noticeable, with the former measure being associated with a relatively better HRQoL (regression coefficient: 0.072).Higher levels of PA are associated with better HRQoL. Using an objective measure of PA compared with subjective shows a relatively better HRQoL.This study explored the psychometric properties (internal consistency, construct validity, discriminative ability) of the Juniper Mini Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (Mini AQLQ-J) and the Sydney Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ-S).One hundred fourty-six adults (18-45 years) with asthma requiring regular inhaled corticosteroids were recruited to a trial of written emotional disclosure. Correlational analyses were performed to understand the relationship of the two measures with each other, with symptoms, lung function, asthma control, asthma bother and generic quality of life. Median quality of life scores were compared according to gender, health care usage and levels of asthma severity.AQLQ-J and AQLQ-S total scores correlated strongly with each other (rho = -0.80) and moderately with the EuroQol Current Health Status Scale (AQLQ-J: rho = 0.35; AQLQ-S: rho = -0.40). Domain score correlations between AQLQ-J and AQLQ-S were mostly moderate (0.50 < rho < 0.80).Both QoL measures were significantly correlated with symptom score. Correlations with the symptom score asthma module (AQLQ-J: rho = -0.69; AQLQ-S: rho = 0.50) were stronger compared with the total symptom score and the symptom score rhinitis module (AQLQ-J: rho = -0.41; AQLQ-S: rho =0.31).Neither QoL measure was significantly correlated with FEV1, % predicted at the total or the domain level.Total scores of both measures were significantly correlated with subjective asthma control (AQLQ-J: rho = 0.68; AQLQ-S: rho = -0.61) and asthma bother (AQLQ-J: rho = -0.73; AQLQ-M: rho = 0.73).Total AQLQ-J score and total AQLQ-S score were significantly associated with perceived asthma severity (AQLQ-J: p=0.004, AQLQ-S: p=0.002) and having visited a GP in the past four months (AQLQ-J: p=0.003, AQLQ-S: p=0.002).This study provides further evidence for the validity of the AQLQ-J and the AQLQ-S in a British population of adult patients with asthma managed in primary care. Correlations with lung function parameters were weak or absent. Correlations with generic quality of life were moderate, those with asthma symptoms, asthma control and asthma bother were strong. Both measures are able to discriminate between levels of asthma severity and health care usage.To estimate the average cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained from hip surgery, and to examine the variation in that between hospitals.The transformation of patient-reported outcome measures (EQ-5D data) into QALYs, covering 25,463 NHS patient episodes between April 2009 and August 2010 from hospitals in England, using a model of future health change arising from a hip operation compared to a counterfactual of no operation. Hospital-level costs for hip procedures from the National Reference Costs data-set was used to calculate the hospitals' cost per QALY.English hospitals treating NHS-funded patients undergoing hip replacement.NHS-funded patients undergoing primary hip replacement.Cost per QALY.Assuming some degradation in patients' health over the lifetime of the hip prosthesis, average health gain arising from a hip operation was 2.77 QALYs. For procedures paid for by the NHS but carried out in the independent sector the average gain was 2.97 QALYs. Average NHS hospital hip procedure costs were estimated to be £5844. The unweighted average cost per QALY for NHS hospitals was £2128. There were significant variations in cost per QALY between hospitals; most of this variation appears to be driven by variations in cost, not QALYs.Using the new patient-assessed health-related quality of life data combined with routine hospital-level cost data it is possible to estimate a procedure-based measure of efficiency for hospitals. The fact that variations in cost per QALY are strongly driven by variations in cost suggests that further work is needed to investigate the causes of cost variations per se--especially the quality of routine NHS cost data.To evaluate the relevance of ongoing nociceptive joint inputs to the maintenance of widespread pain hypersensitivity in patients with hip osteoarthritis (OA) and to determine whether a reversal in the widespread pressure hypersensitivity together with an improvement in pain and function occurs after total hip replacement in these patients.Forty patients with hip OA participated. Twenty patients underwent total hip replacement, and the other 20 patients were assigned to a waiting list. Pressure-pain thresholds (PPTs) over the second metacarpal bone and the gluteus medius, vastus medialis, vastus lateralis, and tibialis anterior muscles were assessed bilaterally with a pressure algometer before and 3 months after total hip replacement surgery. Assessments of pain intensity (by visual analog scale [VAS]), physical function (by the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index), and health status (by the Short Form 12 health survey and the EuroQol 5-domain index) were also performed.Patients who underwent total hip arthroplasty exhibited a reduction in widespread pressure pain hyperalgesia (increases in PPTs) over local and distant pain-free areas, as compared with before surgery and as compared with the patients assigned to the waiting list. PPTs were related to hip pain intensity, and significant correlations were found between higher VAS scores and lower average PPTs over all points assessed (-0.409 < r < -0.306, P < 0.05). Patients who underwent total hip arthroplasty exhibited a greater decrease in pain intensity and greater increases in function and health status than did those who were on the waiting list. Changes in the intensity of hip pain were moderately associated with changes in pressure pain sensitivity in the hip arthroplasty group.Normalization of widespread pressure pain hyperalgesia was found after successful hip joint replacement in patients with hip OA. Altered pain processing seems to be driven by ongoing peripheral joint pathology, which stresses the importance of reducing pain in OA.Recent guidelines for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) state that COPD is both preventable and treatable. To gain a more positive outlook on the disease it is interesting to investigate factors associated with good, self-rated health and quality of life in subjects with self-reported COPD in the population.In a cross-sectional study design, postal survey questionnaires were sent to a stratified, random population in Sweden in 2004 and 2008. The prevalence of subjects (40-84 years) who reported having COPD was 2.1% in 2004 and 2.7% in 2008. Data were analyzed for 1475 subjects. Regression models were used to analyze the associations between health measures (general health status, the General Health Questionnaire, the EuroQol five-dimension questionnaire) and influencing factors.The most important factor associated with good, self-rated health and quality of life was level of physical activity. Odds ratios for general health varied from 2.4 to 7.7 depending on degree of physical activity, where subjects with the highest physical activity level reported the best health and also highest quality of life. Social support and absence of economic problems almost doubled the odds ratios for better health and quality of life.In this population-based public health survey, better self-rated health status and quality of life in subjects with self-reported COPD was associated with higher levels of physical activity, social support, and absence of economic problems. The findings indicated that of possible factors that could be influenced, promoting physical activity and strengthening social support are important in maintaining or improving the health and quality of life in subjects with COPD. Severity of the disease as a possible confounding effect should be investigated in future population studies.Utility values of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) in Asian patients are unknown. This study aims to assess utility values and construct validity of the EuroQOL-5D (EQ-5D), time trade-off (TTO), and standard gamble (SG) instruments in the Singapore multi-ethnic AMD population.Cross-sectional, two-centre, institution-based study. Visual acuity (VA), clinical AMD severity, and utility scores on the EQ-5D, TTO, and SG were obtained from 338 AMD patients. VA was analysed in terms of the better-seeing eye (BEVA), worse-seeing eye (WEVA), and weighted average of both eyes (WVA). We evaluated SG on the perfect health-death (SG(death)) and binocular perfect vision-binocular blindness (SG(blindness)) scales. Construct validity was determined by testing a priorihypotheses relating the EQ-5D, TTO, and SG utility scores to VA and clinical AMD severity.The mean utilities on the EQ-5D, TTO, SG(death), and SG(blindness) were 0.89, 0.81, 0.86, and 0.90, respectively. EQ-5D scores correlated weakly with BEVA, WEVA, and WVA (Pearson's correlation coefficients -0.291, -0.247, and -0.305 respectively, P<0.001 for all). SG(death) and SG(blindness) demonstrated no correlation with BEVA, WEVA, or WVA (Pearson's correlation coefficients, range -0.06 to -0.125). TTO showed weak association only with WEVA and WVA (correlation coefficients -0.237, -0.228, P<0.0001), but not with BEVA (correlation coefficient -0.161). Clinical AMD severity correlated with EQ-5D and SG(death), but not with TTO and SG(blindness) (P=0.004, 0.002, 0.235, and 0.069, respectively).AMD has a negative impact on utilities, although utility scores were high compared with Western cohorts. EQ-5D, TTO, and SG showed suboptimal construct validity, suggesting that health status utilities may not be sufficiently robust for cost-utility analyses in this population.With evolving evidence of association between tuberculosis (TB) and tobacco smoking, recommendations for the inclusion of tobacco cessation interventions in TB care are becoming increasingly important and more widely disseminated. Connecting TB and tobacco cessation interventions has been strongly advocated as this may yield better outcomes. However, no study has documented the impact of such connection on health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The objective of this study was to document the impact of an integrated TB directly observed therapy short-course (DOTS) plus smoking cessation intervention (SCI) on HRQoL.This was a multi-centered non-randomized controlled study involving 120 TB patients who were current smokers at the time of TB diagnosis in Malaysia. Patients were assigned to either of two groups: the usual TB-DOTS plus SCI (SCIDOTS group) or the usual TB-DOTS only (DOTS group). The effect of the novel strategy on HRQoL was measured using EQ-5D questionnaire. Two-way repeated measure ANOVA was used to examine the effects.When compared, participants who received the integrated intervention had a better HRQoL than those who received the usual TB care. The SCIDOTS group had a significantly greater increase in EQ-5D utility score than the DOTS group during 6 months follow-up (mean ± SD = 0.98 ± 0.08 vs. 0.91 ± 0.14, p = 0.006). Similarly, the mean scores for EQ-VAS showed a consistently similar trend as the EQ-5D indices, with the scores increasing over the course of TB treatment. Furthermore, for the EQ-VAS, there were significant main effects for group [F (1, 84) = 4.91, p = 0.029, η2 = 0.06], time [F (2, 168) = 139.50, p = < 0.001, η2 = 0.62] and group x time interaction [F (2, 168) = 13.89, p = < 0.001, η2 = 0.14].This study supports the evidence that an integrated TB-tobacco treatment strategy could potentially improve overall quality of life outcomes among TB patients who are smokers.To construct a model to predict preference-adjusted EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D) health utilities for CS using the disease-specific health-related quality of life measure (CushingQOL).Data were obtained from the European Registry on CS (ERCUSYN). ERCUSYN is a web-based, multicenter, observational study that enrolled 508 CS patients from 36 centers in 23 European countries. Patients included in the study completed both the EQ-5D and the disease-specific CushingQOL questionnaire. Socio-demographic and clinical data were also collected. The UK tariff values were used to calculate EQ-5D utility scores. Various predictive models were tested, and the final model was selected based on four criteria: explanatory power (adjusted R-squared), consistency of estimated coefficients (sign and parameter estimation), normality of prediction errors (mean error, mean absolute error, root mean squared error), and parsimony.For the mapping analysis, data were available from a total of 129 patients. Mean (SD) age was 43.1 (13) years, and the sample was predominantly female (84.5 %). Patients had a mean (SD) CushingQOL score of 39.7 (17.1) and a mean (SD) 'tariff' value on the EQ-5D of 0.55 (0.3). The model which best met the criteria for selection included the intercept and 3 CushingQOL's questions and had an R(2) of 0.506 and a root mean square error of 0.216.It was possible to find a mapping function which successfully predicted the EQ-5D UK utilities from disease-specific CushingQOL scores. The function may be useful in calculating EQ-5D scores when EQ-5D data have not been gathered directly in a study.Internationally, the understanding of psoriasis has advanced in recent years to the point now where it is no longer considered a benign or cosmetic skin condition but a systemic, immune-mediated disease associated with significant comorbidities and considerable detriment to quality of life. The aim of this study was to gain a better understanding of the physical, psychosocial and medical burden of psoriasis on Australian adults and the impact on health status.Two large-scale multi-centre cross-sectional studies of Australian adults with psoriasis were conducted during 2010 and 2011, with the participation of a national patient representative group (Psoriasis Australia). The studies were based on detailed questionnaires that were self-completed by individuals with psoriasis.A total of 362 and 330 completed surveys were received in 2010 and 2011, respectively. A significant physical, psychosocial and medical burden was reported by the respondents. It was noteworthy that patients reported actively concealing their disease from the general public (83%), work colleagues (65%), friends (58%), employers (49%), family (40%), close friends (39%) and spouse/partner (20%). The mean five-dimension European quality of life (EQ-5D) score for the 2011 cohort was 0.73, representing a significant impact on their HRQoL. The presence of comorbidities, found in three-quarters of the cohort, was associated with an even greater detriment to their HRQoL (mean score 0.64).Psoriasis imposes a significant psychosocial burden on the lives of patients, including a profound impact upon their personal and professional relationships, social interactions and quality of life, to a degree comparable to other serious chronic conditions. This study highlights the importance of collaboration between primary and specialist health-care providers in developing patient management strategies that address the spectrum of physical and psychological manifestations associated with psoriasis.The use of 'hinged' knee prostheses for primary knee arthroplasty procedures is increasing. This analysis reports the rates of implant survival, modes of failure, revision details and functional outcomes with particular reference to the primary indication for surgery for a cohort of patients treated with primary hinged knee replacement.Systematic review with supplementary analysis using data from the National Joint Registry and Department of Health. Analysis included 964 patients undergoing primary hinged knee replacement between April 2003 and December 2010. Survival at a maximum of 7 years was calculated for the group as a whole and dependent upon the indication for surgery (osteoarthritis vs. rheumatoid/inflammatory arthritis vs. post-traumatic arthritis). Functional outcomes (pre- and post-operative Oxford Knee and Euroqol-5D scores and post-operative satisfaction) were available for 46 patients.In total, 20 cases required revision. The 5-year survival rate (96.8% [95% CI 95.1-98.4%]) was not dependent upon the primary surgical indication (p = n.s.). The commonest reasons for revision were infection (8 cases), peri-prosthetic fracture (4 cases) and aseptic loosening (3 cases). Patients reported substantial improvements in their Oxford Knee Score (mean improvement = 17.6, [95% CI 14.4-20.8]) and EQ5D index (mean improvement = 0.357, [95% CI 0.248-0.467]). Levels of post-operative satisfaction were high.Hinged knee replacement can be considered as a viable alternative to more traditional unconstrained designs in the complex primary setting. These findings are clinically relevant as they support the increasing use of hinged knee replacements for the arthritic knee in which there is concomitant severe bone loss, deformity or instability. Surgeons using these implants can have confidence that their mid-term performance is comparable to more conventional knee designs.Prospective cohort study, Level II.Two-stage revision is the 'gold standard' treatment for infected total knee replacement. Single-stage revision has been successful in the hip and, in carefully chosen knee revisions, may offer the advantage of a single surgical insult with improved functional outcome.Patient Reported Outcome Measures (PROMs) for 33 single- and 89 two-stage revisions performed for infection were analysed in combination with data from the National Joint Registry for England and Wales. Outcomes including the Oxford Knee Score (OKS), Euroqol-5D (EQ5D) and patient satisfaction were examined with the aim of investigating the following questions: does single- or two-stage revision for infection result in (1) better knee function; (2) better overall perception of health status; (3) better patient perceived success and satisfaction?No statistical difference was found between the groups for any reported outcome measure. Mean OKS following surgery was 24.9 (95 %CI, 20.5-29.4) for single- and 22.8 (95 %CI, 20.2-25.4) for two-stage (n.s.). Mean EQ5D index following surgery was 0.495 (95 %CI, 0.357-0.632) for single and 0.473 (95 %CI, 0.397-0.548) for two-stage (n.s.). Patients reporting Excellent/Very good/Good satisfaction were similar between the groups (single = 61 % vs. two stage = 57 %, (n.s.)). In total, 66 % single- and 60 % two-stage operations were rated 'successful' (n.s.).This study found no demonstrable benefit of single-stage compared to two-stage revision for the infected total knee replacement using a variety of PROMs. Thus, we recommend that decision making must be based on other factors such as re-infection rate.Revision TKA less consistently produces improvements in clinical function and quality of life when compared with primary TKA. The reasons for this difference are unclear.We determined differences in patient-reported outcomes and rates of satisfaction between primary and revision TKAs, and determine whether the reason for revision influences patient-reported outcomes after revision TKA.We retrospectively analyzed prospectively collected patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) for 24,190 patients (23,393 TKAs; 797 aseptic revision TKAs). We compared patient-reported outcomes using the Oxford Knee Score (OKS), EuroQol (EQ-5D), and patient satisfaction between primary TKA and revision TKA, and for subsets of the revision TKA cohort. The followup data were collected between 6 and 12 months (7 months average) postoperatively.Improvements in the OKS (10) and EQ-5D (0.231) were smaller after revision when compared with primary TKA (OKS, 15; EQ-5D, 0.303). Patients who had revision TKA were less satisfied (66% versus 83%). Revisions for aseptic loosening or lysis were associated with the best patient outcomes (OKS improvement = 11; EQ-5D improvement = 0.232; satisfaction = 72%). Revisions for stiffness had the worst results (OKS improvement = 6; EQ-5D improvement = 0.176; satisfaction = 47%).The early improvements in knee function and general health after revision TKA are only 69% to 76% of those observed for primary TKA. Levels of patient-reported knee function, general health, and satisfaction after revision are varied and related to the reason for revision. Even the best revision group does not approach the levels of function and satisfaction observed after primary TKA at a mean of 7 months postoperatively. Longer-term followup would be required to determine whether conclusions from these early data will need to be modified.Level III, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.Limited prospectively collected data are available on the total outcomes, cost estimates, and quality of life associated with treatment of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) through 1 year in a nonclinical-trial setting, or on the impact of new clinical events by 1 year on resource utilization and costs.The Antiplatelet Therapy Observational Registry (APTOR) 12-month study followed 1,335 concurrently recruited ACS patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and treated with antiplatelet therapy from France, Spain, and the United Kingdom in a "real world" clinical setting. Data were collected on clinical events, resource utilization, quality of life, and cost estimates through 1-year follow-up.By 1 year, 14.4% (95% CI 12.7-16.4%) of patients experienced a clinical event of death, MI, stroke, unstable angina, urgent target vessel revascularization, or acute heart failure. Costs by 1 year were higher among those who had a new clinical event (£8,988, 95% CI £7,848, £10,395) as compared with those with no events (£5,809, 95% CI £5,486, £6,161). This increased cost was due to higher postdischarge resource use costs. Using the EQ-5D assessment at 1 year, quality of life was directionally lower in those patients who had experienced a new clinical event.The risk of experiencing a new clinical event during the year following an ACS, which was treated with PCI, remains high among European patients, with one-seventh of patients having a new event. These additional clinical outcomes reduce quality of life and increase health care expenditures, expanding the already high cost of treatment for ACS.The EQ-5D is a preference based instrument which provides a description of a respondent's health status, and an empirically derived value for that health state often from a representative sample of the general population. It is commonly used to derive Quality Adjusted Life Year calculations (QALY) in economic evaluations. However, values for health states have been found to differ between countries. The objective of this study was to develop a set of values for the EQ-5D health states for use in Canada.Values for 48 different EQ-5D health states were elicited using the Time Trade Off (TTO) via a web survey in English. A random effect model was fitted to the data to estimate values for all 243 health states of the EQ-5D. Various model specifications were explored. Comparisons with EQ-5D values from the UK and US were made. Sensitivity analysis explored different transformations of values worse than dead, and exclusion criteria of subjects.The final model was estimated from the values of 1145 subjects with socio-demographics broadly representative of Canadian general population with the exception of Quebec. This yielded a good fit with observed TTO values, with an overall R2 of 0.403 and a mean absolute error of 0.044.A preference-weight algorithm for Canadian studies that include the EQ-5D is developed. The primary limitations regarded the representativeness of the final sample, given the language used (English only), the method of recruitment, and the difficulty in the task. Insights into potential issues for conducting valuation studies in countries as large and diverse as Canada are gained.In this study we explored a novel application of the discrete choice experiment (DCE) that resembles the time trade off (TTO) task to estimate values on the health utility scale for the EQ-5D. The DCE was tested in a survey alongside the TTO in a sample of English-speaking Canadians recruited by a market research company. The study found that the DCE is able to derive logical and consistent values for health states valued on the full health - dead scale. The DCE overcame some issues identified in the version of TTO currently used to value EQ-5D, notably allowing for fewer data exclusions and incorporating values considered worse than dead without introducing a separate valuation procedure. This has important implications for providing robust values that represent the preferences of all respondents.To identify if a tailored rehabilitation programme is more effective than standard practice at improving function in patients undergoing metal-on-metal hip resurfacing arthroplasty.Randomized controlled trial.Specialist orthopaedic hospital.80 men with a median age of 56 years.Tailored post-operative physiotherapy programme compared with standard physiotherapy.Primary outcome - Oxford Hip Score (OHS), Secondary outcomes: Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (HOOS), EuroQol (EQ-5D-3L) and UCLA activity score. Hip range of motion, hip muscle strength and patient selected goals were also assessed.At one year the mean (SD) Oxford Hip Score of the intervention group was higher, 45.1 (5.3), than the control group, 39.6 (8.8). This was supported by a linear regression model, which detected a 5.8 unit change in Oxford Hip Score (p < 0.001), effect size 0.76. There was a statistically significant increase in Hip disability and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score of 12.4% (p < 0.0005), effect size 0.76; UCLA activity score differed by 0.66 points (p < 0.019), effect size 0.43; EQ 5D showed an improvement of 0.85 (p < 0.0005), effect size 0.76. A total of 80% (32 of 40) of the intervention group fully met their self-selected goal compared with 55% (22 of 40) of the control group. Hip range of motion increased significantly; hip flexion by a mean difference 17.9 degrees (p < 0.0005), hip extension by 5.7 degrees (p < 0.004) and abduction by 4 degrees (p < 0.05). Muscle strength improved more in the intervention group but was not statistically significant.A tailored physiotherapy programme improved self-reported functional outcomes and hip range of motion in patients undergoing hip resurfacing.The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-utility of Docetaxel with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (TAC) and 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide (FAC) in node-positive breast cancer patients in the south of Iran.A double blind study was done on a cohort of 100 patients suffering from breast cancer with node-positive over 8 months in the radiotherapy center of Namazi hospital, Shiraz-Iran. Health-related quality of life was assessed using questionnaire (QLQ-C30) from European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). QLQ-C30 scale scores were mapped to 15D and EuroQol 5D utilities to measure the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).Third party payer point of view was applied to measure and value the cost of treatments. Cost data were extracted from hospital and health insurance organizations. Robustness of the results was checked through a two way sensitivity analysis.TAC was associated with higher deterioration in HRQoL during treatment and higher improvements over 4 months follow-up. On average, the cost of treatment per patient in TAC was 15 times higher than FAC (p < .001). In overall, TAC was resulted in lower QALYs and higher cost over study period.FAC was a dominant option versus TAC in short-term. The higher improvement in HRQoL over follow-up in TAC may not compensate the more intensive deterioration caused during treatment in short-term. The short time horizon of study may limit the generalizability of our findings and, hence, there is a need to conduct long-term economic evaluation studies whenever data is available to inform decision making.To measure 1-year post-hip fracture functional recovery, health-related quality of life (HRQL), and mortality in nursing home residents.Prospective longitudinal cohort study.Ambulatory nursing home residents with or without impaired cognition consecutively admitted with hip fracture to three Canadian tertiary-care hospitals from March 2008 through November 2009.Participants or proxy respondents completed the Functional Independence Measure Motor score (FIM(motor) ) and EuroQol5D index score (EQ-5D(index) ) in the hospital (prefracture status) and 3, 6, and 12 months after fracture. Complications over the first postfracture year were also ascertained; the primary outcome was functional recovery (change in FIM(motor) score).Of 92 eligible participants, 60 (64%) were enrolled. The mean age was 86.9 ± 8.1, 42 (70%) were female, and 45 (75%) had three or more comorbidities. Forty-three (72%) walked independently with or without aids before fracture. By 12 months, 27 (45%) participants had died, and 10 (17%) had withdrawn. Of the remaining 23 participants, functional status according to FIM(motor) score dropped substantially and significantly after the fracture (3 months, 34.0 ± 19.7; 6 months, 33.2 ± 19.7; 12 months, 32.0 ± 20.0; P < .001 from a baseline FIM(motor) score of 50.1 ± 16.1). By 12 months after the fracture, only eight (35%) were walking independently, and 11 (48%) were no longer ambulatory. HRQL according to the EQ-5D(index) also decreased significantly (P = .003), from 0.62 ± 0.20 before fracture to 0.42 ± 0.30 by 12 months after fracture.Hip fracture for nursing home residents was associated with substantial loss of functional independence, ambulation, and HRQL. Little recovery was evident after the first 3 months; there was almost 50% mortality within 12 months.Our goal was to assess clinical and radiographic outcomes using a second-generation circumferentially proximally porous-coated titanium alloy stem at a minimum of eight years of follow-up.Ninety-one hips (80 patients) with Fibre Metal Taper (FMT, Zimmer Inc, Warsaw, IN, USA) femoral stems implanted between May 1998 and April 2002 were followed prospectively and re-evaluated at a minimum of eight years postoperatively. The median patient age was 56 (range 34-78) years, with 40 women and 40 men. Radiographic data and clinical follow-up using Harris Hip Score (HHS) and EuroQol (EQ)-5D outcome measures were evaluated.Mean follow-up was 9.61 (range 8-12.3) years. At the time of the most recent follow-up, the mean HHS was 85.8 (range 46-100) points, mean EQ-5D Weighted Health State Index was 0.76 (range 0.05-1.00), and mean EQ-5D Visual Analogue Score was 80 (range 24-100). All stems were biologically stable, with all hips having osseous ingrowth. One stem was revised due to early periprosthetic fracture with stem subsidence. No hip had diaphyseal osteolysis.To our knowledge, the data presented here represent the longest clinical follow-up of this second-generation cementless, proximally porous-coated femoral stem. The stems were found to perform well clinically and radiographically beyond the first five years previously reported in the literature. Patients had high levels of satisfaction and function, and osseous fixation occurred reliably without evidence of distal osteolysis.This was a prospective observational study designed to evaluate direct and indirect costs and quality of life for patients with Crohn's disease in Italy from the perspectives of the National Health System and of society.A total of 162 male and female subjects aged 18-70 years with Crohn's disease in the active phase and a Crohn's Disease Activity Index score ≥150 were included in the study. Subjects were recruited from 25 Italian centers on a consecutive basis. The study consisted of four visits undertaken every 6 months with a follow-up period of 18 months. The study started on September 1, 2006 and was completed on April 12, 2010. Multivariate analyses were carried out on demographic characteristics, treatment costs based on the prescribed daily dose, resource use and other cost parameters, and changes in quality of life using the EQ5D questionnaire.Cost of illness per subject with Crohn's disease in Italy was estimated to be €15,521 per year, with direct costs representing 76% of total costs. Nonhealth care costs and loss of productivity accounted for 24% of total costs. Societal costs during the first months of enrolment were higher compared with costs in the final months of the study. Quality of life measured by the EQ-5D was 0.558 initially and then increased to 0.739, with a mean value of 0.677 during the enrolment period. The cost of illness was not correlated with age or gender.The cost of illness was correlated with quality of life; Crohn's disease had a negative impact on subjects' quality of life, and higher costs corresponded to a lower quality of life as measured with the EQ5D. Drug treatment may improve quality of life and reduce hospitalization costs. Our results appear to be in line with the results of other international cost-of-illness studies.Day surgery holds advantages for both the patient and the health care organization. However, recovery beyond the first postoperative week and following different types of surgery has not been explored to any greater degree. The current aims were to prospectively describe postoperative recovery and health-related quality of life among different groups of day surgery patients and to explore the association between postoperative recovery and health-related quality of life 30 days after discharge.A consecutive sample of 607 adult day surgery patients undergoing orthopaedic, gynaecological or general surgery was included. Postoperative recovery was assessed on days 1, 7 and 14 using the Swedish Post-discharge Surgery Recovery scale and the Quality of Recovery-23 scale. The EQ-5D was used to assess health-related quality of life preoperatively and 30 days following discharge. A repeated measure ANOVA was conducted to evaluate postoperative recovery from day 1 to day 14 and between different surgical groups. Hierarchical multiple linear regression models were used to explore the association between postoperative recovery and health-related quality of life.Postoperative recovery improved from day 1 to 14 in all surgical groups (p<0.001). The orthopaedic patients had lower postoperative recovery on day 14 compared to the general and the gynaecological patients (p<0.001). Health-related quality of life was lower among orthopaedic patients (p<0.001), even if significant improvements over time were seen in all groups. Recovery on day 7 was associated with health-related quality of life 30 days after the day surgery (p<0.05).Particularly orthopaedic day surgical patients seem to favour a closer follow-up in order to support recovery and thereby also positively influence health-related quality of life.Many case series have been published on treatments of varicose veins, but comparative randomized controlled trials remain sparse.To compare the anatomic success rate, frequency of major complications, and quality-of-life improvement of endovenous laser ablation (EVLA), ultrasound-guided foam sclerotherapy (UGFS), and conventional surgery (CS), after 1-year follow-up.A total of 240 consecutive patients with primary symptomatic great saphenous vein reflux were randomized to EVLA, UGFS, or CS, consisting of high ligation and short stripping. Primary outcome was anatomic success defined as obliteration or absence of the treated vein on ultrasound examination after 1 year. Secondary outcomes were complications, improvement of the "C" class of the CEAP classification, and improvement of disease-specific (Chronic Venous Insufficiency Quality-of-Life Questionnaire) and general (EuroQol 5) quality-of-life scores.More than 80% of the study population was classified as C2 or C3 venous disease. After 1 year, the anatomic success rate was highest after EVLA (88.5%), followed by CS (88.2%) and UGFS (72.2%) (P < .001). The complication rate was low and comparable between treatment groups. All groups showed significant (P < .001) improvement of EuroQol 5 and Chronic Venous Insufficiency Quality-of-Life Questionnaire scores after therapy; 84.3% of all treated patients showed an improvement of the "C" of the CEAP classification.After 1-year follow-up, EVLA is as effective as CS and superior to UGFS according to occlusion on ultrasound duplex. Quality of life improves after treatment in all groups significantly.In many countries, utility measures are required for allocation decisions. Unlike the EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D), the dermatology life quality index (DLQI) has not been developed for the derivation of utilities. Purpose of this study was to develop and test an algorithm for the transformation of DLQI scores into utilities. Pre-existing data of two cross-sectional studies (for development, n = 1,511; for cross-validation n = 2,009) of German psoriasis patients were reanalyzed. Both EQ-5D global score and EQ-5D visual analogue scale (VAS) were used as utility measures. Correlations were computed to identify predictors of EQ-5D utilities. Linear stepwise regressions were conducted using DLQI and further possible predictors to find the optimal mapping algorithm. Using only DLQI as predictor resulted in coefficients of determination of r (2) = 0.235 (EQ-5D global score) and r (2) = 0.242 (EQ-5D VAS). In the final algorithm, seven predictors were included which correctly predicted EQ-5D VAS for 60.4 % (development database) and 60.8 % of all patients (cross-validation database) within a range of ±15 units. The algorithm explained 31.3 % of the EQ-5D variance in the development database and 26.8 % in the cross-validation database. In conclusion, mapping of DLQI on EQ-5D in psoriasis patients has severe limitations in validity and clinical relevance.Rimonabant treatment, examined in Phase 3 trials, showed improvement of cardiovascular risk factors in obese patients.The objective of this Phase 4 trial is to assess the effectiveness of rimonabant plus lifestyle counselling when used in daily practice, namely in the general practice. The hypothesis was that the effectiveness in Phase 4 would be smaller than the efficacy in Phase 3 due to different patient selection and treatment conditions. At the end of this trial, rimonabant was suspended of all markets due to psychiatric side effects.This trial randomly assigned 222 patients with enlarged waist circumferences and hyperglycaemia or diabetes mellitus type 2, recruited from Dutch general practices, to double-blinded therapy with either placebo or rimonabant (20 mg/day) for 1 year in addition to lifestyle counselling.Compared with placebo, the rimonabant group showed significant improvements in body weight, body mass index, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and the main outcome waist circumference after 1 year. The United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study risk calculation showed no significant difference. The rimonabant group showed statistically deterioration, compared with the placebo group, in the quality of life in the EuroQol and two domains of the SF-36: role limitations due to physical health problems and bodily pain.The unique real life data of this Phase 4 trial showed that the effectiveness of rimonabant in daily practice is indeed lower than in controlled circumstances (Phase 3). Rimonabant treatment showed improvement of obesity and the HDL cholesterol, but had no positive effect on the other cardiovascular risk factors and the quality of life.Evidence of the potential impact of systematic screening for prostate cancer (PCa) on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) at a population-based level is currently scarce.This study aims to quantify the long-term HRQoL impact associated with screening for PCa.Postal questionnaire surveys were conducted in 1998, 2000, 2004, and 2011 among men in the Finnish PCa screening trial diagnosed with PCa (total n=7011) and among a random subsample of the trial population (n=2200). In 2011, for example, 1587 responses were received from men with PCa in the screening arm and 1706 from men in the control arm. In addition, from the trial subsample, 549 men in the screening arm and 539 in the control arm provided responses.Health-state-value scores were compared between the intervention and control arms using three distinct HRQoL measures (15D, EQ-5D, and SF-6D), and statistical significance was assessed using t tests. In addition, differences over repeated assessments of HRQoL between groups were evaluated using generalised estimating equations.In the 2011 survey, a small but statistically significant difference emerged between the trial arms among men diagnosed with PCa (mean scores, screening vs control arm: 15D: 0.872 vs 0.866, p=0.14; EQ-5D: 0.852 vs 0.831, p=0.03; and SF-6D: 0.763 vs 0.756, p=0.06). Such differences in favour of the screening arm were not found among the sample of men from the trial (15D: 0.889 vs 0.892, p=0.62; EQ-5D: 0.831 vs 0.852, p=0.08; and SF-6D: 0.775 vs 0.777, p=0.88). The slight advantage with screening among men with PCa was reasonably consistent across time in the longitudinal analysis and was strongest among men with early-stage disease.These results show some long-term HRQoL benefit from screening for men with PCa but suggest little impact overall in the trial population.This study uses data from a previously published randomised trial where balloon kyphoplasty was compared to non-surgical management. Of the improved overall quality of life, 60 % was caused by decreased pain. However, ignoring other dimensions of quality of life would underestimate the procedure's effect.Acute back pain has been viewed as the most important factor lowering quality of life (QoL) for patients suffering vertebral fractures. The objective of this study was to quantify the impact of different health dimensions on overall QoL using patient-reported outcome measurements (PROMs) collected in Fracture Reduction Evaluation (FREE) trial.The analysis was based on patients included in the 2-year-long randomised controlled FREE trial studying the efficacy and safety of balloon kyphoplasty procedure (BKP) compared to non-surgical management (NSM). The PROMs included were EQ-5D, Short Form (SF)-36, visual analogue scale (VAS) pain and the Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ). The health dimensional contribution to the overall QoL improvements was analysed by isolating the impact of each dimension on QoL in the SF-36 and EQ-5D, respectively. A correlation analysis of the QoL improvement was performed to investigate the relationships between the four instruments.Changes in pain explained 60 % of the quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained in BKP vs. NSM followed by self-care (17 %), mobility (16 %) and usual activities (10 %) (EQ-5D). Health dimensions capturing the mental state had little impact on the QALY gained. The SF-36 dimensional analysis showed similar results. The correlation analysis showed that the correlation between VAS pain, RMDQ and QALY improvement was fairly weak.Changes in the pain dimension of health are the most important drivers for changes of overall QoL in patients treated with BKP or NSM. However, ignoring the impact of other dimensions would lead to an underestimation of the actual improvement in overall QoL.The quality of life during the first 4 months after fracture was estimated in 2,808 fractured patients from 11 countries. Analysis showed that there were significant differences in the quality of life (QoL) loss between countries. Other factors such as QoL prior fracture and hospitalisation also had a significant impact on the QoL loss.The International Costs and Utilities Related to Osteoporotic Fractures Study (ICUROS) was initiated in 2007 with the objective of estimating costs and quality of life related to fractures in several countries worldwide. The ICUROS is ongoing and enrols patients in 11 countries (Australia, Austria, Estonia, France, Italy, Lithuania, Mexico, Russia, Spain, UK and the USA). The objective of this paper is to outline the study design of ICUROS and present results regarding the QoL (measured using the EQ-5D) during the first 4 months after fracture based on the patients that have been thus far enrolled ICUROS.ICUROS uses a prospective study design where data (costs and quality of life) are collected in four phases over 18 months after fracture. All countries use the same core case report forms. Quality of life was collected using the EQ-5D instrument and a time trade-off questionnaire.The total sample for the analysis was 2,808 patients (1,273 hip, 987 distal forearm and 548 vertebral fracture). For all fracture types and countries, the QoL was reduced significantly after fracture compared to pre-fracture QoL. A regression analysis showed that there were significant differences in the QoL loss between countries. Also, a higher level of QoL prior to the fracture significantly increased the QoL loss and patients who were hospitalised for their fracture also had a significantly higher loss compared to those who were not.The findings in this study indicate that there appear to be important variations in the QoL decrements related to fracture between countries.The objective of this study was to correlate various radiological parameters with clinical outcome in patients who had undergone lumbar total disc replacement (TDR). Lumbar TDR is one possible treatment option in patients with low back pain (LBP), offering an alternative to lumbar fusion. Favourable clinical outcome hinges on a number of radiological parameters, such as mobility, sintering, and-most importantly-accurate positioning of the implant.A total of 46 patients received a prosthetic disc because of degenerative lumbar disc disorders. Follow-up evaluation included analysis of radiographs and subjective rating of the clinical status by the patient using the North American Spine Society (NASS) patient questionnaire, visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain and state of health, and the EuroQol EQ-5D. Radiological follow-up took place after 2 years. Coronal and sagittal positions of the prosthesis, intervertebral disc height, facet joint pressure, mobility, sintering, and calcification were evaluated. Optimal positioning of the prosthesis was defined as a central coronal position and a most dorsal position in the sagittal plane. Based on the radiologically determined placement of the prosthesis, the patient population was divided into three groups, i.e., prosthesis ideally placed (<2 mm), discretely shifted (2-3 mm), or suboptimally placed (>3 mm).Overall, 81 % of patients stated that they would undergo the operation again. Health status was stable at a VAS score of 7.04 points 2 years after TDR, compared to 3.97 points before TDR. Mean working capacity had increased from 53 % preoperatively to 88 % 2 years after TDR. Overall, 39 % of the prostheses were rated as ideally positioned, while 13 % were discretely shifted and 48 % were suboptimally placed with respect to one of the radiological criteria. In 80.4 % of patients, follow-up assessment after ≥2 years indicated good mobility at the operated segment, while calcification was noted in 4 % and sintering was detected in 15 % of the implants.Our data indicate poor correlation between clinical outcome and position of the prosthesis. Although 48 % of the implants were suboptimally placed in either the coronal or sagittal plane, most of the patients reached a very good clinical outcome. However, suboptimally placed devices appeared to cause significantly more neurological symptoms in long-term follow-up.Economic viability of treatments for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) should be assessed objectively to prioritise health care interventions. This study aims to identify the methods for eliciting utility values (UVs) most sensitive to differences in visual field and visual functioning in patients with POAG. As a secondary objective, the dimensions of generic health-related and vision-related quality of life most affected by progressive vision loss will be identified.A total of 132 POAG patients were recruited. Three sets of utility values (EuroQoL EQ-5D, Short Form SF-6D, Time Trade Off) and a measure of perceived visual functioning from the National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire (VFQ-25) were elicited during face-to-face interviews. The sensitivity of UVs to differences in the binocular visual field, visual acuity and visual functioning measures was analysed using non-parametric statistical methods.Median utilities were similar across Integrated Visual Field score quartiles for EQ-5D (P = 0.08) whereas SF-6D and Time-Trade-Off UVs significantly decreased (p = 0.01 and p = 0.001, respectively). The VFQ-25 score varied across Integrated Visual Field and binocular visual acuity groups and was associated with all three UVs (P ≤ 0.001); most of its vision-specific sub-scales were associated with the vision markers. The most affected dimension was driving. A relationship with vision markers was found for the physical component of SF-36 and not for any dimension of EQ-5D.The Time-Trade-Off was more sensitive than EQ-5D and SF-6D to changes in vision and visual functioning associated with glaucoma progression but could not measure quality of life changes in the mildest disease stages.The aim of our study was to discover the health status and healthcare utilisation associated with pulmonary exacerbations in cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. Patients with CF from five UK CF centres attended two visits, 8-12 weeks apart. They were classified at visit 1 as being in one of the three health states: no current pulmonary exacerbation; "mild" (no hospitalisation) pulmonary exacerbation; and "severe" (hospitalisation) pulmonary exacerbation. All patients completed the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) and EuroQol (EQ-5D) and a clinical form, and forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) was measured at visits 1 and 2. Annual healthcare utilisation data were collected. 94 patients of mean±sd age 28.5±8.2 yrs and FEV1 58.7±26.8% were recruited. 60 patients had no pulmonary exacerbation, 15 had a mild and 19 had a severe pulmonary exacerbation at visit 1. EQ-5D and CFQ-R data showed that the worse the exacerbation, the poorer the health-related quality of life (HRQoL). There were strong relationships between the CFQ-R and EQ-5D domain scores. The mean rate of pulmonary exacerbations per patient per year was 3.6 (1.5 in hospital and 2.2 at home). The mean length of stay per hospital pulmonary exacerbation was 9 days. As exacerbation status worsens, patients experience worse HRQoL. There is a significant healthcare burden associated with treatment of pulmonary exacerbation and long-term prophylaxis.This analysis sought to describe the characteristics and well-being of carers of older people with mental health problems admitted to a general hospital.General medical and trauma orthopaedic patients aged 70 years or older admitted to an acute general teaching hospital were screened for mental health problems. Those screened positive, together with a carer, were invited to undergo further assessment with a battery of health status measurements. Carers were interviewed to ascertain strain (caregiver strain index (CSI)), psychological distress (12-item General Health Questionnaire) and quality of life (EQ-5D).We recruited 250 patients to the study, of whom 180 were cognitively impaired and had carers willing to take part. After 6 months, 57 patients (32%) had died, and we followed up 100 carers. Carers' own health, in terms of mobility, usual activities, and anxiety, was poor in a third of cases. At the time of admission, high carer strain was common (42% with CSI ≥ 7), particularly among co-resident carers (55%). High levels of behavioural and psychiatric symptoms at baseline were associated with more carer strain and distress. At follow-up, carer strain and distress had reduced only slightly, with no difference in outcomes for carers of patients who moved from the community to a care home.Hospital staff should be alert to sources of carer strain and offer carers practical advice and emotional support. Interventions are required to prevent and manage behavioural and psychiatric symptoms at the time of acute physical illness or to alleviate their effects on carers.Oral-specific measures are often preferred to examine outcomes of oral disorders. However, generic measures can add additional information, including health utility. The aim was to assess the Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP), EuroQol (EQ-5D), and Assessment of Quality of Life (AQoL) instruments in relation to oral health in terms of their discriminative and convergent validities. Data were collected from adults, 30-61 yr of age, in Australia by mailed survey during 2009 and 2010, including the OHIP-14, the EQ-5D, and the AQoL, a range of self-reported oral health variables, and by self-rated oral and general health. Responses were collected from 1093 subjects (a response rate of 39.1%). The OHIP, the EQ-5D, and the AQoL were associated with oral health variables, with effect sizes ranging from 0.6 to 1.1 for the OHIP, from 0.3 to 0.5 for the EQ-5D, and from 0.4 to 0.6 for the AQoL. The OHIP tended to be more strongly correlated with self-rated oral health (rho = -0.5) than with general health (rho = -0.3), whilst the EQ-5D and the AQoL were less strongly correlated with oral health (rho = -0.3 and -0.3, respectively) than with general health (rho = -0.4 and -0.5, respectively). Whilst the OHIP was more sensitive to differences in oral health, the generic measures of EQ-5D and AQoL both exhibited discriminative validity and convergent validity in relation to oral health variables, supporting their use in oral health studies.This study assesses the cost-effectiveness of vaccination against herpes zoster (HZ) and postherpetic neuralgia in France, using a published Markov model. The cost-effectiveness of vaccinating individuals aged from 65 years or between 70 and 79 years was evaluated over their lifetime, from a third-party payer perspective. French-specific data were combined with results from clinical studies and international quality-of-life-based (EuroQol five-dimension questionnaire) utilities from the literature. HZ vaccination was highly cost effective in both populations. Incremental cost-effective ratios were estimated between €9513 and 12,304 per quality-adjusted life year gained, corresponding to €2240-2651 per HZ case avoided and €3539-4395 per postherpetic neuralgia case avoided. In addition to epidemiological and clinical evidence, economic evidence also supports the implementation of HZ vaccination in France.The EQ-5D is a generic questionnaire providing a preference-based index score applicable to cost-utility analysis. This is the first study to validate the EQ-5D in patients with somatoform disorders.Data of the EQ-5D descriptive system, the British and the German EQ-5D index and the EQ Visual Analogue Scale, the Patient Health Questionnaire 15, the Patient Health Questionnaire 9, the Whiteley Index 7 and the Short Form 36 were collected from 294 patients at baseline, 244 at 6 months and 256 at 12 months after baseline. The discriminative ability of the EQ-5D was evaluated by comparison with a general population sample and by the ability to distinguish between different symptom severities. Convergent validity was analysed by assessing associations between the EQ-5D and the other instruments. Responsiveness was evaluated by analysing the effects on scores between two measurements in groups of patients reporting worse, same or better health. The Bonferroni correction was employed.For all items of the EQ-5D except 'self-care', patients with somatoform disorders reported more problems than the general population. The EQ-5D showed discriminative ability in patients with different symptom severities. For nearly all reference instruments there were significant differences in mean scores between respondents with and without problems in the various EQ-5D items and strong correlations with the EQ Visual Analogue Scale and the EQ-5D index scores. Evidence for the responsiveness of the EQ-5D could only be found for patients with better health; effects were medium at the utmost.The EQ-5D showed a considerable validity and a limited responsiveness in patients with somatoform disorders.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN55280791.The impact of urinary incontinence (UI) on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has been less well researched in men than women and the general population. This study aims to assess the association between UI and HRQoL in men 1 year after prostate surgery.Planned secondary analysis of data from two parallel randomized controlled trials of active conservative treatment for UI in 853 men following radical prostatectomy (RP) and transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). Men of any age were eligible for trial inclusion if they were experiencing UI 6 weeks after undergoing RP or TURP at 34 centers in the United Kingdom. Univariate and multivariate analysis considered associations between health status (SF-12 and EQ-5D) and self-reported UI. Multivariate analysis controlled for age, obesity, UI prior to surgery, and concomitant fecal incontinence.Mean age of 411 men in the RP trial was 62.3 years (SD 5.7) and 442 men in the TURP trial was 68.0 (SD 7.9). Of men with UI at 6 weeks after surgery, 76.7% in the RP group and 63.2% in the TURP group still had UI at 12 months. Any UI at 12 months was significantly associated with reduced HRQoL in the RP group and lower EQ-5D and SF-12 Mental Component Scores in the TURP group.Any UI is a significant factor in reduced HRQoL in men following prostate surgery, particularly younger men who undergo RP. Its importance to patients as an adverse outcome should not be underestimated.Trochanteric fractures are common fractures in the elderly. Due to characteristic demographic changes, the incidence of these injuries is rapidly increasing. Treatment of these fractures is associated with high rates of complications. In addition, the long-term results remain poor, with high morbidity, declines in function, and high mortality. Therefore, in this study, complication rates and patients' outcomes were evaluated after fixation of geriatric trochanteric fractures using the Gamma3™ nail.Patients aged 60 years old or older, with pertrochanteric and subtrochanteric femoral fractures, were included. Patients with polytrauma or pathological fractures were excluded. Age, sex, and fracture type were collected on admission. In addition, data were recorded concerning the surgeon (resident vs. consultant), time of operation, and local or systemic perioperative complications. Complications were also collected at the 6- and 12-month follow-ups after trauma. Barthel Index, IADL, and EQ-5D measurements were evaluated retrospectively on admission, as well as at discharge and during the follow-up.Ninety patients were prospectively included between April 2009 and September 2010. The patients' average age was 81 years old, and their average ASA score was 3. The incision/suture time was 53 min (95% CI 46-60 min). Hospital mortality was 4%, and overall mortality was 22% at the 12-month follow-up. Eight local complications occurred (4 haematomas, 1 deep infection, 1 cutting out, 1 irritation of the iliotibial tract, 1 periosteosynthetic fracture). The incidence of relevant systemic complications was 6%. Forty-two percent of the patients were operated on by residents in training, without significant differences in duration of surgery, complication rate, or mortality rate. The Barthel Index (82 to 71, p < .001), IADL (4.5 to 4.3, p = .0195) and EQ-5-D (0.75 to 0.66, p = .068) values did not reach pre-fracture levels during the follow-up period of 12 months.The results showed a relatively low complication rate using the Gamma3™ nail, even if the nailing was performed by residents in training. The high mortality, declines in function, and low quality of life could probably be attributed to pre-existing conditions, such as physical status.In summary, the Gamma3™ nail seems to be a useful implant for the nailing of trochanteric fractures, although further studies are necessary comparing different currently available devices.For cost-utility analyses of health technologies, utilities are commonly measured with the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) or the Short Form 6D (SF-6D). Although most studies in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) found the SF-6D to be more responsive than the EQ-5D, evidence is not convincing. The aim of this study was to compare the responsiveness of the EQ-5D and SF-6D to improvement in RA patients treated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers.Data from 278 RA patients included in the Dutch Rheumatoid Arthritis Monitoring registry were used. Internal responsiveness over 1 year was evaluated by using standardized response means (SRMs). External responsiveness was evaluated by using receiver operating characteristic curves based on perceived health change (self-reported health transition item Short Form 36) and change in disease activity (European League Against Rheumatism response criteria based on the Disease Activity Score in 28 joints).The scores of the EQ-5D and SF-6D changed moderately over 1 year (SRMs 0.50 and 0.67, respectively). The SF-6D was significantly more responsive to treatment than the EQ-5D. The EQ-5D and SF-6D were moderately able to correctly classify patients according to health transition (areas under the curve [AUCs] 0.67 and 0.72, respectively) and change in disease activity (AUCs 0.71 and 0.65, respectively).The EQ-5D and SF-6D were only moderately responsive to improvement in RA patients treated with TNF blockers. Overall, the SF-6D was more responsive than the EQ-5D.Displaced femoral neck fractures in healthy elderly patients have traditionally been managed with hemiarthroplasty (HA). Recent data suggest that total hip arthroplasty (THA) may be a better alternative.A systematic review of the English literature was conducted. Randomized controlled trials comparing all forms of THA with HA were included. Three authors independently extracted articles and predefined data. Results were pooled using a random effects model.Eight trials totalling 986 patients were retrieved. After THA 4 % underwent revision surgery versus 7 % after HA. The one-year mortality was equal in both groups: 13 % (THA) versus 15 % (HA). Dislocation rates were 9 % after THA versus 3 % after HA. Equal rates were found for major (25 % in THA versus 24 % in HA) and minor complications (13 % THA versus 14 % HA). The weighted mean of the Harris hip score was 81 points after THA versus 77 after HA. The subdomain pain of the HHS (weighted mean score after THA was 42 versus 39 points for HA), the rate of patients reporting mild to no pain (75 % after THA versus 56 % after HA) and the score of WOMAC (94 points for THA versus 78 for HA) all favored THA. Quality of life measured with the EQ-5D favored THA (0.69 versus 0.57).Total hip arthroplasty for displaced femoral neck fractures in the fit elderly may lead to higher patient-based outcomes but has higher dislocation rates compared with hemiarthroplasty. Further high-quality randomized clinical trails are needed to provide robust evidence and to definitively answer this clinical question.In addition to performance-based measures, vision-related quality of life (QOL) and other subjective measures of psychosocial functioning are considered important outcomes of training in the visually impaired. In a multicenter, masked, randomized controlled trial, subjective effects of training in the use of closed-circuit televisions (CCTV) were investigated.Patients (n = 122) were randomized either to a treatment group that received usual delivery instructions from the supplier combined with concise outpatient training, or to a control group that received delivery instructions only. Subjective outcomes were the low vision quality-of-life questionnaire (LVQOL), EuroQOL 5 dimensions, adaptation to age-related vision loss (AVL), and the Center of Epidemiologic Studies Depression scales. Linear mixed models were used to investigate treatment effects. Differential effects of patient characteristics were studied by implementing higher order interactions into the models.From baseline to follow-up, all patients perceived significantly less problems on the reading and fine work dimension (-28.8 points; P < 0.001) and the adaptation dimension (-4.67 points; P = 0.04) of the LVQOL. However, no treatment effect was found based on the intention-to-treat analysis.This study demonstrated the effect of receiving and using a CCTV on two vision-related QOL dimensions; however, outpatient training in the use of CCTVs had no additional value. (trialregister.nl number, NTR1031.).To assess the measurement properties (acceptability, validity, reliability and responsiveness), of the MOS 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), the EQ-5D, the Short-Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) and the Musculoskeletal Functional Assessment Instrument (MFA), in patients who have undergone limb reconstruction surgery (LRS).Four instruments measuring patient-reported outcome were completed at baseline and 12 months from surgery.101 LRS patients were recruited with 95 responding at baseline and 71 at a 12-month follow-up. Response rates at baseline were over 94%. In three instruments, there was evidence of floor or ceiling effect, the exception being the EQ-5D. Cronbach's α statistics of internal consistency reliability were acceptable at ≥ 0.80 for all dimensions of the MFA, the SF-MPQ PRI(S) and seven of the SF-36 dimensions. When comparing mean changes in scores between baseline and 12 months, the most responsive measure was the SF-36 with an average Standardised Response Mean of 0.48 for those who reported their health as better. Statistically significant differences were observed between the health change groups ('worse', 'better' and 'same') for four dimensions of the SF-36, the two summary scores and the SF-6D.Variation and poor performance of some of the instruments resulted in a recommendation of using the SF-36 and the SF-6D for LRS patients.This study aimed to determine the association between potentially inappropriate prescribing (PIP) and health related outcomes [adverse drug events (ADEs), health related quality of life (HRQOL) and hospital accident and emergency (A&E) visits] in older community dwelling patients.A retrospective cohort study of 931 community dwelling patients aged ≥70 years in 15 general practices in Ireland in 2010. PIP was defined by the Screening Tool of Older Person's Prescriptions (STOPP). ADEs were measured by patient self-report and medical record for the previous 6 months and reviewed by two independent clinicians. HRQOL was measured by the EQ-5D. A&E visits were measured by patients' medical records and self-report. Multilevel logistic, linear and Poisson regression examined how ADEs, HRQOL and A&E visits varied by PIP after adjusting for patient and practice level covariates: socioeconomic status, co-morbidity, number of drug classes and adherence.The overall prevalence of PIP was 42% (n = 377). Patients with ≥2 PIP indicators were twice as likely to have an ADE (adjusted OR 2.21; 95% CI 1.02, 4.83, P < 0.05), have a significantly lower mean HRQOL utility (adjusted coefficient -0.09, SE 0.02, P < 0.001) and nearly a two-fold increased risk in the expected rate of A&E visits (adjusted IRR 1.85; 95% CI 1.32, 2.58, P < 0.001). The number of drug classes and adherence were also significantly associated with these same adverse health outcomes.Reducing PIP in primary care may help lower the burden of ADEs, its associated health care use and costs and enhance quality of life in older patients.Population health status scores are routinely used to inform economic evaluation and evaluate the impact of disease and/or treatment on health. It is unclear whether the health status in black and minority ethnic groups are comparable to these population health status data. The aim of this study was to evaluate health-status in South Asian and African-Caribbean populations.Cross-sectional study recruiting participants aged ≥ 45 years (September 2006 to July 2009) from 20 primary care centres in Birmingham, United Kingdom.10,902 eligible subjects were invited, 5,408 participated (49.6%). 5,354 participants had complete data (49.1%) (3442 South Asian and 1912 African-Caribbean). Health status was assessed by interview using the EuroQoL EQ-5D.The mean EQ-5D score in South Asian participants was 0.91 (standard deviation (SD) 0.18), median score 1 (interquartile range (IQR) 0.848 to 1) and in African-Caribbean participants the mean score was 0.92 (SD 0.18), median 1 (IQR 1 to 1). Compared with normative data from the UK general population, substantially fewer African-Caribbean and South Asian participants reported problems with mobility, usual activities, pain and anxiety when stratified by age resulting in higher average health status estimates than those from the UK population. Multivariable modelling showed that decreased health-related quality of life (HRQL) was associated with increased age, female gender and increased body mass index. A medical history of depression, stroke/transient ischemic attack, heart failure and arthritis were associated with substantial reductions in HRQL.The reported HRQL of these minority ethnic groups was substantially higher than anticipated compared to UK normative data. Participants with chronic disease experienced significant reductions in HRQL and should be a target for health intervention.To evaluate the health related quality of life (HRQoL) and to explore the influencing factors related to the prevalence of the essential hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke in middle-aged and elderly people from rural communities.A total of 5345 individuals were chosen from a 2010 Health Survey in Fangshan, Beijing. Self-designed questionnaire was applied to collect the information on general health-related behaviors, chronic conditions, self-rated health, blood pressure and HRQoL with the EuroQoL questionnaire (EQ-5D) were measured. Probit regression model was used to identify the influencing factors on HRQoL, adjusting age, marriage status, education level, smoking, alcohol intake, physical activity and control of blood pressure. Population Attributable Risk Proportion (PARP) for estimating the influence of chronic disease on HRQoL was also calculated.The average EQ-5D index was 0.923 ± 0.145, with 72.1% of the overall respondents in the status of having chronic diseases. Participants with chronic diseases had significantly lower EQ-5D index (0.907 ± 0.155) than those without (0.963 ± 0.105) (t = 15.082, P < 0.001). Significant relations were found between a lower HRQoL and chronic diseases. Relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence interval (95%CI) of poor HRQoL in populations with hypertension, diabetes, CHD and stroke were 1.686 (95%CI: 1.519 - 1.871), 1.725 (95%CI: 1.502 - 1.981), 1.869 (95%CI: 1.663 - 2.099), and 1.759 (95%CI: 1.474 - 2.089) respectively. The most influential disease appeared to be stroke in male (RR = 1.929, 95%CI: 1.462 - 2.546), whereas CHD in female individuals (RR = 1.926, 95%CI: 1.671 - 2.220). Rates of PARP (PAR%) for poor HRQoL in chronic disease subgroups were as follow: hypertension 31.05%, CHD 23.39%, diabetes 4.84% and stroke 4.44%, respectively.This study suggested that stroke, at individual level, was the major influential factor to HRQoL. However, hypertension remained the leading preventable influential factor to HRQoL at the population level.Non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFA) may be associated with significant morbidity. Published data on the quality of life (QoL) of patients with NFA are scarce and conflicting. In view of the discordant findings and the advances in the management of these subjects, we aimed to evaluate the QoL in patients with NFA followed up in a tertiary endocrine UK referral centre.All consecutive patients with NFA attending the outpatient clinic in the Department of Endocrinology in Oxford over a 6-month period (n = 193) were offered 3 health-related QoL questionnaires [Short Form 36 (SF36), Nottingham Health Profile (NHP), European Quality of Life Scale (EuroQoL)] to complete. Patient outcomes (response rate 93.3%) were compared with age-related UK reference values.None of the QoL scores in the SF-36 or the 5 dimensions of health in the EuroQoL was different from the reference values. The visual analogue scale (VAS) score (EuroQoL) was slightly compromised (P = 0.041). In the NHP questionnaire, males had no parameter significantly affected, whereas females performed worse in 1/6 areas (energy levels). Tumour recurrence was an independent predictor for compromised VAS score and for anxiety/depression (EuroQoL), and visual field defects for more frequent problems with interests/hobbies (NHP).Overall, the health-related QoL and perception of subjective health in patients with NFA was not compromised to any major extent suggesting that we can now offer the prospect of treatment and replacement, which will provide a normal or near-normal QoL. Specific groups are affected in various dimensions, necessitating measures to compensate for predisposing factors.To assess the effect of second generation, home based telehealth on health related quality of life, anxiety, and depressive symptoms over 12 months in patients with long term conditions.A study of patient reported outcomes (the Whole Systems Demonstrator telehealth questionnaire study; baseline n=1573) was nested in a pragmatic, cluster randomised trial of telehealth (the Whole Systems Demonstrator telehealth trial, n=3230). General practice was the unit of randomisation, and telehealth was compared with usual care. Data were collected at baseline, four months (short term), and 12 months (long term). Primary intention to treat analyses tested treatment effectiveness; multilevel models controlled for clustering by general practice and a range of covariates. Analyses were conducted for 759 participants who completed questionnaire measures at all three time points (complete case cohort) and 1201 who completed the baseline assessment plus at least one other assessment (available case cohort). Secondary per protocol analyses tested treatment efficacy and included 633 and 1108 participants in the complete case and available case cohorts, respectively.Provision of primary and secondary care via general practices, specialist nurses, and hospital clinics in three diverse regions of England (Cornwall, Kent, and Newham), with established integrated health and social care systems.Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes, or heart failure recruited between May 2008 and December 2009.Generic, health related quality of life (assessed by physical and mental health component scores of the SF-12, and the EQ-5D), anxiety (assessed by the six item Brief State-Trait Anxiety Inventory), and depressive symptoms (assessed by the 10 item Centre for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale).In the intention to treat analyses, differences between treatment groups were small and non-significant for all outcomes in the complete case (0.480 ≤ P ≤ 0.904) or available case (0.181 ≤ P ≤ 0.905) cohorts. The magnitude of differences between trial arms did not reach the trial defined, minimal clinically important difference (0.3 standardised mean difference) for any outcome in either cohort at four or 12 months. Per protocol analyses replicated the primary analyses; the main effect of trial arm (telehealth v usual care) was non-significant for any outcome (complete case cohort 0.273 ≤ P ≤ 0.761; available case cohort 0.145 ≤ P ≤ 0.696).Second generation, home based telehealth as implemented in the Whole Systems Demonstrator Evaluation was not effective or efficacious compared with usual care only. Telehealth did not improve quality of life or psychological outcomes for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes, or heart failure over 12 months. The findings suggest that concerns about potentially deleterious effect of telehealth are unfounded for most patients.ISRCTN43002091.To develop and examine the effectiveness of individual 6-month home rehabilitation program in ischemic stroke patients upon disability and quality of life at 2 years.This is a prospective randomized controlled trial (RCT) in 60 patients with recent ischemic stroke. They were randomly assigned to receive either home rehabilitation program once a month for 6 months with audiovisual materials (intervention group) or usual care (control group). We collected outcome data after discharge from the hospital until 2 years. The Barthel index (BI), the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) and utility index (EQ-5D) were measured for function, disability and quality of life respectively.At 2 years, the BI was significantly improved in the intervention group more than the control group: 97.2±2.8 vs. 76.4±9.4, p<0.001. The good outcome, defined as BI 95-100, or mRS 0 or 1. For BI, there were 29 patients (96.7%) in intervention group vs 12 patients (42.9%) in usual care group (95% CI, 42.0, 85.0, p=0.03). For mRS, there were 28 patients (93.3%) in intervention group vs 9 patients (32.1%) in usual care group (95% CI, 38.2, 87.0, p=0.02). Number needed to treat for good outcome in mRS was 2.0 (95% CI: 1.0, 1.3). The mean (SD) of utility index in intervention group and control group were 0.9±0.02 and 0.7±0.04 respectively (p=0.03). There was no significant interaction in baseline characteristics and treatment outcome.Early home rehabilitation program in the first 6 months period after ischemic stroke leads to more rapid improvement in function, reducing disability and increase quality of life than usual care.To determine the prevalence of inflammatory back pain in an anterior uveitis cohort.Retrospective cohort study.Patients with anterior uveitis were recruited from the clinic of an ophthalmologist to complete a survey between March and December 2008. Patients were classified with inflammatory back pain if they had ≥2 positive responses to 4 validated inflammatory back pain questions: presence of morning stiffness >30 minutes in duration; improvement in back pain with exercise but not with rest; awakening from back pain during the second half of the night only; and presence of alternating buttock pain. Disease activity was assessed using the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI). The impact of disease on quality of life was measured using the EuroQOL (EQ-5D) questionnaire. Twenty-five patients underwent further rheumatologic examination.One hundred forty-one of 167 patients (84.4%) completed the survey. Sixty-six of 141 patients (46.8%) were classified to have inflammatory back pain. Mean BASDAI (4.2, SD 2.41) and EQ-5D scores (0.73, SD 0.21) were lower than patients with no inflammatory back pain (0.82, SD 0.16, P = .0048). In the subgroup that underwent rheumatologic assessment, a classification of inflammatory back pain was 92% sensitive and 67% specific for a diagnosis of inflammatory back pain.The prevalence of inflammatory back pain in a cohort of anterior uveitis patients was found to be 46.8%. Patients with inflammatory back pain had worse quality of life than those without. Ophthalmologists may use these questions on back pain to select patients classified to have inflammatory back pain to refer for early rheumatologic assessment.The goal of facial transplantation is to transform severely deformed features in a single, complex operation. Although nearly 20 have been completed since 2005, there is limited information about the subsequent psychosocial status of recipients.The purpose of this study is to describe such changes as captured on a variety of psychosocial measures 3 and 6 months after full facial transplantation among 3 adults who all completed a comprehensive psychiatric assessment before the procedure.We hypothesized and found that participants experienced significant improvement on quality of life measures of physical and mental health based on the MOS-SF -12. While the recipients experienced a decline in their physical quality of life in the 3 months immediately after surgery, they had improvement by 6 months (p = 0.02). Overall mental health showed steady improvement from the time before surgery to 6 months later (p = 0.04). These changes, however, were not reflected in another popular measure of quality of life, the EQ-5D. There were no changes in participants ' self-esteem or dyadic function over the same period of time.As facial transplantation evolves from being a novel surgical procedure to an increasingly common clinical practice, future efforts to delineate the psychosocial changes experienced by recipients might include mixed methods analyses, with both qualitative and quantitative data, as well as collaborative assessment protocols shared among facial transplantation programs.Schizophrenia is associated with autonomic dysfunction and this may increase cardiovascular mortality. Past studies on autonomic modulation of schizophrenic patients focused on inpatients rather than individuals in a community setting, especially those receiving non-intensive case management (non-ICM). Besides, autonomic modulation and its association with health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in this population remain unexplored.A total of 25 schizophrenic patients treated by non-ICM and 40 healthy volunteers were matched by age, gender and body mass index; smokers were excluded. Between the two groups, we compared the individuals' 5 min resting assessments of heart rate variability and their HRQoL, which was measured using EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D). Patients with schizophrenia were assessed for psychopathology using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS). We examined the relationship between heart rate variability measurements, HRQoL scores, PANSS scores, and other clinical variables among the schizophrenic patients treated by non-ICM.Compared to the controls, patients with schizophrenia showed a significant impairment of autonomic modulation and a worse HRQoL. Cardiovagal dysfunction among the schizophrenic patients could be predicted independently based on lower educational level and more negative symptoms. Sympathetic predominance was directly associated with anticholinergics use and EQ-5D using a visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS).Patients with schizophrenia treated by non-ICM show a significant impairment of their autonomic function and HRQoL compared to the controls. Since the sympathovagal dysfunction is associated with more negative symptoms or higher VAS score, the treatment of the negative symptoms as well as the monitoring of HRQoL might help to manage cardiovascular risk among these individuals. In addition, EQ-VAS scores must be interpreted more cautiously in such a population.To ascertain prospectively the health service cost of vertebroplasty in a cohort of consecutive patients with spinal metastases.Percutaneous vertebroplasty was performed under conscious sedation and local anaesthetic in the Interventional Suite with fluoroscopic guidance. Data were collected prospectively on standard forms. Quality of life questionnaires (EQ-5D) were filled out pre-, 6 weeks, and at 6 months post-vertebroplasty.The majority of the procedures were performed on an outpatient basis (8/11). The median duration of the procedure was 60 min (range 40-80 min) with a further 60 min spent in the recovery room (range 10-230 min). Personnel involved included a consultant radiologist, a radiology registrar, four nurses, and two radiographers. The average cost of vertebroplasty per patient, including consumables, capital equipment, hotel/clinic costs, and staffing, was £2213.25 (95% CI £729.95). The mean EQ-5D utility scores increased from 0.421 pre-treatment to 0.5979 post-treatment (p = 0.047). The visual analogue scale (VAS) of perceived health improved from a mean of 41.88 to 63.75 (p = 0.00537).Health service costs for percutaneous vertebroplasty in patients with spinal metastases is significantly lower than previously estimated and is in keeping with that of other palliative radiological procedures.The aim of the study was to identify factors influencing the health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) for Korean RA patients and factors associated with each dimension of the EQ-5D. Two hundred and twenty-five RA patients were recruited from one University Hospital in Seoul, South Korea. Their clinical and socio-demographic data were widely collected by means of interviews, self-administered questionnaires, and clinical examinations. Multiple logistic regression analyses were performed to determine the factors influencing QOL and factors associated with each dimension of the EQ-5D. The mean EQ-5D utility observed for Korean RA patients was 0.60 (-0.29 to 1.0). Functional disability measured with Health Assessment Questionnaire (OR = 10.0, CI 2.8-34.5), disease activity score (DAS) 28 (OR = 2.6, CI 1.4-4.9), and pain VAS (OR = 2.2, CI 1.2-4.1) was three main factors influencing on QOL of RA patients. Although the functional disability consistently showed significant associations with all dimensions, various factors were associated with the each five specific dimension of EQ-5D. Pain (OR = 2.5, CI 1.4-4.6), history of hospitalization (OR = 2.1, CI 1.0-4.3), and men (OR = 2.6, CI 1.0-6.8) were associated with lower QOL in mobility. Use of alternative medicine (OR = 2.0, CI 1.1-3.7) and disease activity (OR = 3.1, CI 1.7-5.7) were associated with lower self-care QOL. For the patients with discomfort in usual activity, pain (OR = 4.7, CI 2.4-9.2) and the presence of anemia (OR = 2.3, CI 1.2-4.5) were major influencing factors. Higher disease activity (OR = 4.5, CI 1.0-21.2) and pain (OR = 3.3, CI 1.9-5.8) were associated with the pain/discomfort dimension of EQ-5D, and the pain (OR = 3.3, CI 1.9-5.8) was an independent associating factor of anxiety/depression. The strongest determinants of lower QOL in Korean RA patients were functional disability, higher disease activity, and subjective pain. However, various factors are influencing on the QOL for RA patients according to aspects of QOL. It suggested that clinicians should pay more attention to other factors of RA patients as well as clinical remission to improve their QOL.This study investigates the effect of changes in moderate or vigorous physical activity (MVPA) on trajectories in health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) over 7 years in British elderly women.A total of 1,926 women from the British Women's Heart and Health Study with information on MVPA and HR-QoL [measured using Euro quality of life 5 dimension (EQ-5D)] at baseline and at 7 years of follow-up were included in the analysis. Baseline and 7-year follow-up MVPA values were categorised into 3 groups, generating 9 categories of change in MVPA. Logistic regression was used to obtain odds ratios (ORs) of maintaining or improving HR-QoL according to different patterns of change in MVPA level.Women who remained inactive over the 7 years of follow-up had the largest reduction in their EQ-5D scores. Compared to these women, women that increased their MPVA level from "inactive" to "low" or to "moderate-high" were more likely to maintain or improve their HR-QoL over 7 years (ORs 1.65 or 2.70, respectively, p value for trend <0.001). After adjustment for baseline EQ-5D score and a wide range of potential confounders, results remained largely unchanged, though precision of the estimates generally decreased.Our findings suggest that relatively regular MVPA, even taken up later in life, can help older women prevent a decline in HR-QoL and even improve their enjoyment of life.Diabetes is a major health problem in Korea. However, interest in the quality of life in patients with diabetes is low. We examined the effects of diabetes on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and compared it with HRQoL in the general Korean population using the Fourth Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES IV) (2007-2009).Using KNHANES IV data, we compared EuroQol (EQ)-5D and EQ-visual analogue scale (VAS) scores after adjusting for sociodemographic and psychosocial factors as well as for comorbidities (hypertension, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, and chronic renal disease). Logistic regressions were used to explore determinants for the lowest quintile HRQoL scales in the diabetes group.The mean age of the 14,441 enrolled subjects (6,129 men and 8,312 women) was 52.5±14.5 years. The mean EQ-5D and EQ-VAS scores were significantly lower in the diabetes group (EQ-5D. 0.87; EQ-VAS, 71.94) than in the non-diabetes group (EQ-5D, 0.94; EQ-VAS, 77.40) (P<0.001). Self-reported depressive symptom had a significant effect on lowering the EQ-VAS (odds ratio [OR], 1.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.1 to 2.6) in the diabetes group. Stress level had a significant effect in lowering both the EQ-5D (OR, 2.0; 95% CI, 1.3 to 2.9) and the EQ-VAS (OR, 1.9; 95% CI, 1.3 to 2.9). HbA1c, diabetes duration, and treatment modalities had no significant effect on lowering HRQoL.Diabetes was clearly associated with impaired HRQoL compared with the non-diabetic population regardless of comorbidities. Therapeutic approaches should focus much more on the subjective perception of health in patients with diabetes.This study aims to assess the prevalence rates of mental disorders and chronic medical conditions in the Singapore resident population, and examine their association and respective impact on the quality of life.A household survey was carried out on a nationally representative sample of the adult (18 years and above) resident population. The main instrument used to establish the diagnosis of mental disorders is the World Mental Health Composite International Diagnostic Interview (WMH-CIDI). The mental disorders included in study were major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalised anxiety disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, alcohol abuse and alcohol dependence. Respondents were asked if they had any of the chronic medical conditions from a list of 15 conditions. Health-related quality of life was assessed with the EQ-5D.Of the 6616 respondents, the lifetime prevalence of mental disorders was 12.0%, and that of chronic medical disorders were 42.6% and those with comorbid mental and medical disorders was 6.1%. The prevalence of any physical disorder in this population was high (42.6%). Among those with chronic physical disorders, 14.3% also had a mental disorder, and among those with mental disorders, more than half (50.6%) had a medical disorder. Most of the mental disorders were not treated. Males, Indians, older people, and those who were separated or divorced were more likely to have comorbidity. The health-related quality of life was significant worse in those with both mental and medical disorders compared to those with either mental or medical disorder.Our study re-emphasised the common occurrence of mental and medical disorders and the importance for an integrated care system with the capability to screen and treat both types of disorders. It also identified certain subpopulations which are more likely to have comorbidity for which a more targeted intervention could be planned.Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has a significant impact on patients' health-related quality of life (HRQOL). This study aimed to measure health state utility values representing the individual's preferences for specific health-related outcomes in advanced NSCLC patients and to assess predictive parameters.We conducted a prospective quality-of-life survey on advanced NSCLC patients in 25 hospitals in Europe, Canada, Australia, and Turkey. HRQOL was assessed using the EuroQol (EQ-5D) questionnaire and EQ-5D utility and EQ-visual analog (EQ-VAS) scores were estimated.Three hundred nineteen patients were recruited of which 263 had evaluable data. Mean utility for progression-free (PF) patients on first-, second-, and third-/fourth-line treatment was 0.71 (SD = 0.24), 0.74 (SD = 0.18), and 0.62 (SD = 0.29), respectively. Mean utility for patients with progressive disease (PD) while on first-, second- and third-/fourth-line treatment was 0.67 (SD = 0.2), 0.59 (SD = 0.34), and 0.46 (SD = 0.38), respectively. Overall, patients with PD had lower mean utility scores than PF patients (0.58 versus 0.70). The results of the EQ-VAS showed that the score decreased with later treatment lines. Patients with PD had a 10-point decrease in VAS scores compared with PF patients (53.7 versus 66.6). The regression analysis revealed that stage IV disease, higher lines of treatment, and health state were significant predictors of utility at the 10% level.The results presented indicate a substantial impact of lung cancer on patients' HRQOL, with stage IV disease, line of treatment, and PD, resulting in considerable deterioration of utility. The values obtained here will inform evaluations of cost-utility for NSCLC therapies.To assess the responsiveness of the KQoL-26 and demonstrate minimal change for this instrument in two different samples of patients with suspected internal derangement of the knee.Data were collected from two surveys conducted alongside a clinical trial: the arthroscopy sample and the general practitioner (GP) sample. The effect size (ES) was used to assess responsiveness. Anchor-based minimal change included minimal clinical important difference (MCID) and receiver operator characteristic curves; standardized error of measurement and minimal detectable change (MDC) was employed for distribution-based approaches. The KQoL-26 results are compared with those for the Lysholm Knee Score, EQ-5D and SF-36.The arthroscopy sample consisted of 121 participants and the GP sample of 218 participants at baseline. The largest ES was found for the KQoL-26 emotional functioning scale in both samples. The results were in favour of the condition-specific instrument. The MCID for KQoL-26 physical functioning, activities limitations and emotional functioning scales were 3, 15 and 18, respectively, in the arthroscopy sample; they were 11, 16 and 24 in the GP sample. The MDC 95 % was estimated as 18, 28 and 34, and 15, 24 and 30 in each sample, respectively.The KQoL-26 emotional functional scale was the most responsive of all scales. It is recommended that an instrument such as the KQoL-26 that includes emotional functioning should be included rather than the Lysholm in future clinical trials of patients with suspected internal derangement of the knee.There has been a policy debate in the United Kingdom about moving beyond traditional measures of life expectancy and economic output to developing more meaningful ways of measuring national well-being.To test whether quality adjusted life expectancy (QALE) was a useful indicator of health inequalities.EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire data from a well-being survey was combined with actuarial life expectancy (LE) data to estimate healthy LE (HLE), that is, years of life lived in good health, and QALE, that is, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) lived for Wirral, a borough in the north west of England.The gap between Wirral and the most deprived areas was 4.45 years for LE, 5.34 for QALE, and 7.55 for HLE. The gap in QALE was 20% greater than the gap in LE, while the gap in HLE was 70% greater.The fact that the QALE gap value lies between the HLE value and the LE value suggests that QALE is a more sensitive indicator than HLE, as in this study QALE is derived from 243 possible EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire profiles whereas HLE is based only on whether or not an individual rates his or her health as good, a binary variable. This study discusses how QALE could be a useful indicator for measuring health inequalities in future, especially as cost utility and QALYs are seen as the gold standard used by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom to measure outcomes for health interventions in England, and discusses how a monetary valuation of QALYs could be used to put a societal cost on health inequalities.A key goal for services treating older persons is improving Quality of Life (QoL). This study aimed to 1) determine the QoL and utility (i.e. satisfaction with own quality of life) for participants of a discharge program for older people following an extended hospital episode of care and 2) examine the impact of the intensity of this program on utility gains over time.A prospective observational cohort study with baseline and repeated measures follow up of 351 participants of the transition care program in six community sites in two states of Australia was conducted. All participants who gave consent to participate were eligible for the study. QoL and utility of the participants were measured at baseline, end of program, three and six months post baseline using the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O. Association between the intensity of the program, measured in hours of care given, and improvement in utility were tested using linear regression.The ICECAP-O yielded consistently higher utility values than the EQ-5D at all time points. Baseline mean (sd) utility scores were 0.55 (0.20) and 0.75(0.16) and at six months were 0.60 (0.28) and 0.84 (0.25) for the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O respectively. The ICECAP-O showed a significant improvement over time. The intensity of the post-acute program measured by hours delivered was positively associated with utility gains in this cohort.A discharge program for older frail people following an extended hospital episode of care appears to maintain and generate improvements in QoL. The amount of gain was positively influenced by the intensity of the program.To demonstrate potential uses of nationally collected patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) data to estimate cost-effectiveness of hernia surgery.Cost-utility model populated with national PROMs, National Reference Cost and Hospital Episodes Statistics data.Hospitals in England that provided elective inguinal hernia repair surgery for NHS patients between 1 April 2009 and 31 March 2010.Patients >18 years undergoing NHS-funded elective hernia surgery in English hospitals who completed PROMs questionnaires.Change in quality-adjusted life year (QALY) following surgery; cost per QALY of surgery by acute provider hospital; health gain and cost per QALY by surgery type received (laparoscopic or open hernia repair).The casemix-adjusted, discounted (at 3.5%) and degraded (over 25 years) mean change in QALYs following elective hernia repair surgery is 0.826 (95% CI, 0.793-0.859) compared to a counterfactual of no treatment. Patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery show a significantly greater gain in health-related quality of life (EQ-5D index change, 0.0915; 95% CI, 0.0850-0.0979) with an estimated gain of 0.923 QALYS (95% CI, 0.859-0.988) compared to those having open repair (EQ-5D index change, 0.0806; 95% CI, 0.0771-0.0841) at 0.817 QALYS (95% CI, 0.782-0.852). The average cost of hernia surgery in England is £1554, representing a mean cost per QALY of £1881. The mean cost of laparoscopic and open hernia surgery is equivocal (£1421 vs. £1426 respectively) but laparoscopies appear to offer higher cost-utility at £1540 per QALY, compared to £1746 per QALY for open surgery.Routine PROMs data derived from NHS patients could be usefully analyzed to estimate health outcomes and cost-effectiveness of interventions to inform decision-making. This analysis suggests elective hernia surgery offers value-for-money, and laparoscopic repair is more clinically effective and generates higher cost-utility than open surgery.To examine the feasibility and acceptability of alcohol screening and delivery of brief interventions within criminal justice settings.A quantitative survey of those aged 18 or over in English criminal justice settings (three custody suites within police stations, three prisons and three probation offices).The Fast Alcohol Screening Test (FAST) and a modified version of the Single Alcohol Screening Question (M-SASQ) were compared with the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) as the 'gold standard'. Participants completed a health status questionnaire (EQ5D), questions on service utilization and the Readiness to Change Questionnaire. Questions relating to the acceptability and feasibility of delivering brief interventions and about perception of coercion were included.Five hundred and ninety-two individuals were approached and 251 were eligible. Of these, 205 (82%) consented to take part in the study. The mean AUDIT score was 19.9 (SD 13.5) and 73% scored 8 or more on AUDIT. A higher percentage of those approached in the probation setting consented to take part (81%: prison 36%, police setting 10%). Those scoring AUDIT positive were more likely to be involved in violent offences (36.5 vs 9.4%; P < 0.001) and less likely to be involved in offences involving property (27.7 vs 45.3%; P = 0.03). Three quarters of the sample (74%) reported that they would not feel coerced to engage in an intervention about their alcohol use. FAST and M-SASQ had acceptable screening properties when compared with AUDIT with area under the curves of 0.97 and 0.92, respectively.The results confirm that there is a major problem with alcohol use in the criminal justice system and this impacts on health and criminal behaviour. Of the three criminal justice settings, probation was found to be the most suitable for screening. Participants were positive about receiving interventions for their alcohol use in probation settings.The measurement and valuation of quality of life forms a major component of economic evaluation in health care and is a major issue in health services research. However, differing approaches exist in the measurement and valuation of quality of life from a health economics perspective. While some instruments such as the EQ-5D-3L focus on health-related quality of life alone, others assess quality of life in broader terms, for example, the newly developed ICECAP-O.The aim of this study was to utilize two generic preference-based instruments, the EQ-5D-3L and the ICECAP-O, to measure and value the quality of life of older adult patients receiving post-acute care. An additional objective was to compare the values obtained by each instrument with those generated from two community-based general population samples.Data were collected from a clinical patient population of older adults receiving post-acute outpatient rehabilitation or residential transition care and two Australian general population samples of individuals residing in the general community. The individual responses to the ICECAP-O and EQ-5D-3L instruments were scored using recently developed Australian general population algorithms. Empirical comparisons were made of the resulting patient and general population sample values for the total population and dis-aggregated according to age (65-79 and 80+ years) and gender.A total of 1,260 participants aged 65-99 years (n = 86 clinical patient sample, n = 385 EQ-5D-3L general population sample, n = 789 ICECAP-O general population sample) completed one or both of the EQ-5D-3L and ICECAP-O instruments. As expected, the patient group demonstrated lower quality of life than the general population sample as measured by both quality-of-life instruments. The difference in values between the patient and general population groups was found to be far more pronounced for the EQ-5D-3L than for the ICECAP-O. The ICECAP-O was associated with a mean difference in values of 0.04 (patient group mean 0.753, SD 0.18; general population group mean 0.795, SD 0.17, respectively, p = 0.033). In contrast, the EQ-5D-3L was associated with a mean difference in values of 0.19 (patient group mean 0.595, SD 0.20; general population group mean 0.789, SD 0.02, respectively, p ≤ 0.001).The study findings illustrate the magnitude of the difference in patient and general population values according to the instrument utilized, and highlight the differences in both the theoretical underpinnings and valuation algorithms for the EQ-5D-3L and ICECAP-O instruments. Further empirical work is required in larger samples and alternative patient groups to investigate the generalizability of the findings presented here.The aim of this study was to explore, via empirical comparison, the relationship between quality of life, as measured by the ICECAP-O capability index (a new instrument designed to measure and value quality of life in older people), with both self-reported health status and the quality of care transition in adults aged 65 and over participating in two post acute rehabilitation programs (outpatient day rehabilitation and the Australian National Transition Care residential program).The ICECAP-O was administered to patients receiving either outpatient day rehabilitation (n = 53) or residential transition care (n = 29) during a face to face interview. The relationships between the ICECAP-O and other instruments, including the EQ-5D (a self-reported measure of health status) and CTM-3 (a self-reported measure of the quality of care transitions), the type of post-acute care being received and socio-demographic characteristics were examined.The mean ICECAP-O score for the total sample was 0.81 (SD: 0.15). Patients receiving outpatient day rehabilitation generally reported higher levels of capability, than patients receiving residential transition care (mean 0.82 [SD: 0.15] and 0.79 [SD: 0.164] respectively), however these differences were not statistically significant. The mean EQ-5D score for the total sample was somewhat lower than the ICECAP-O (mean 0.55; SD: 0.27) indicating significant levels of health impairment with the outpatient day rehabilitation group demonstrating slightly higher levels of health status than the transition care group (mean 0.54 [SD: 0.254] and mean 0.49 [SD: 0.30]). The ICECAP-O was found to be positively correlated with both the CTM-3 (Spearman's r =0.234; p ≤ 0.05) and the EQ-5D (Spearman's r = 0.437; p ≤ 0.001). The relationships between the total EQ-5D and CTM-3 scores and the individual attributes of the ICECAP-O indicate health status and quality of care transition in this patient population to be influential in some, but not all aspects of capability.The correlations between the ICECAP-O, EQ-5D and CTM-3 instruments illustrate that capability is strongly and positively associated with health-related quality of life and the quality of care transitions. However further research is required to further examine the construct validity of the ICECAP-O and to examine its potential for incorporation into economic evaluation.Musculoskeletal disorders are major causes of morbidity in the world, and these conditions have a strong negative influence in terms of health-related quality of life. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of an 8-week multimodal physical therapy program on general health state and health-related quality of life in patients with chronic musculoskeletal disorders.There were 244 participants in this prospective cohort analysis with 8-week follow-up. The primary outcome was general health state (physical and mental components), determined with the Short Form-12 Health Survey (SF-12). The secondary outcome was health related quality of life, determined with the EuroQoL-5D and VAS. The intervention was evaluated by comparing pre- and post-outcome measurements. T-tests were performed for paired data.Differences were statistically significant for physical health state: +1.68 (p < 0.05) (baseline: 42.38); mental health state: +3.15 (p < 0.001) (baseline: 46.57); and health related quality of life: +0.18 (EuroQoL 5D) (baseline: 46.57) and +7.22 (EuroQoL_VAS) (p < 0.001) (baseline: 60.81). Intervention resulted in clinically relevant changes in terms of percentage improvement from baseline scores.Eight weeks of a Multimodal Physical Therapy Program seemed to moderately enhance the general health state and HRQoL of patients with chronic musculoskeletal diseases. This kind of therapeutic exercise can be recommended to patients with chronic low back pain, chronic neck pain and osteoarthritis, at least in the short term.Several studies have linked obesity to the increased likelihood of lower back pain, but there are no studies focussing on the effectiveness of a multimodal physiotherapy programme (MPP) in obese subjects who suffer from chronic non-specific lower back pain (CNLBP). The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of an MPP in obese (G1) (body mass index (BMI):≥30) and non-obese (G2) (BMI:<30) patients with CNLBP.A quasi-experimental study with pre- and post-intervention evaluations of an MPP (lasting 8 weeks) was conducted on obese and non-obese patients with CNLBP. A total of 53 people were included in the study: G1, composed of 19 patients (10 men and 9 women) with a BMI of 33.75 and a mean age of 52.94 years, and G2, composed of 34 patients (18 men and 16 women) with a mean age of 49.19 years and an average BMI of 25.56. All patients were measured to calculate pre-intervention (baseline) and post-intervention (8 weeks) changes in disability (RMQ) and health related quality of life in physical and mental health component state of SF12 and quality of life (EQ-5D and EQ-VAS).Post-intervention, non-obese group shown significant high improve than obese group in disability (RMQ: 4.00), physical component state of SF-12: (-7.26) and quality of life (EQ-VAS.: -10.49).In patients with CNLBP, a BMI more than or equal to 30 minimises the effects of an MPP lasting 8 weeks.the evaluation of the determinants of change over time in health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) in older people is limited. This study aims to identify patterns of change in HR-QoL over 7 years and their determinants using data from the British Women's Heart and Health Study, a representative sample of older women (n = 4286).longitudinal latent class analysis was used to identify subpopulations of women with similar HR-QoL trajectories from 1999-2000 to 2007. HR-QoL was measured using the EQ-5D. Multivariate multinomial logistic regression was used to model the association of identified trajectories with baseline predictors after multiple imputation of missing data.four distinct EQ-5D trajectories were suggested: high (19% of women), high decline (22%), intermediate (42%) and low decline (16%). Prevalent arthritis (OR = 13.4; 95% CI: 8.8, 20.5), diabetes (OR = 4.6; 95% CI: 1.5, 14.2) and obesity (OR = 3.9; 95% CI: 2.5, 6.0) were the strongest predicting health conditions of adverse changes in HR-QoL and physical activity the strongest predicting lifestyle factor (OR = 2.8; 95% CI: 2.0, 3.9).findings suggest that older women without obesity or pre-existing health conditions who undertake more physical activity are more likely to experience high HR-QoL, reinforcing the importance of these factors for healthy ageing.Clinical studies employ the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) to measure the severity of Parkinson's disease. Evaluations often fail to consider the health-related quality of life (HrQoL) or apply disease-specific instruments. Health-economic studies normally use estimates of utilities to calculate quality-adjusted life years. We aimed to develop an estimation algorithm for EuroQol- 5 dimensions (EQ-5D)-based utilities from the clinical UPDRS or disease-specific HrQoL data in the absence of original utilities estimates.Linear and fractional polynomial regression analyses were performed with data from a study of Parkinson's disease patients (n=138) to predict the EQ-5D index values from UPDRS and Parkinson's disease questionnaire eight dimensions (PDQ-8) data. German and European weights were used to calculate the EQ-5D index. The models were compared by R(2), the root mean square error (RMS), the Bayesian information criterion, and Pregibon's link test. Three independent data sets validated the models.The regression analyses resulted in a single best prediction model (R(2): 0.713 and 0.684, RMS: 0.139 and 13.78 for indices with German and European weights, respectively) consisting of UPDRS subscores II, III, IVa-c as predictors. When the PDQ-8 items were utilised as independent variables, the model resulted in an R2 of 0.60 and 0.67. The independent data confirmed the prediction models.The best results were obtained from a model consisting of UPDRS subscores II, III, IVa-c. Although a good model fit was observed, primary EQ-5D data are always preferable. Further validation of the prediction algorithm within large, independent studies is necessary prior to its generalised use.To describe the distribution of injuries and the quality of life and functioning at activity and participation level of rehabilitated Dutch military personnel who were wounded during the mission to Afghanistan.Retrospective, descriptive.The study population consisted of military war casualties who followed multidisciplinary rehabilitation treatment for injuries sustained in combat in Afghanistan. Distribution and degree of injuries were classified according to the 'Abbreviated Injury Scale' (AIS) and the 'Injury Severity Score' (ISS). Quality of life and functional disabilities were assessed with a semi-structured interview, and the following questionnaires: EuroQol-5D with an extra dimension 'cognition' (EQ-6D), the 'Assessment of Life Habits' shortened version 3.0 (LIFE-H 3.0) and the 'Lower Extremity Functional Scale'(LEFS). Coping style was assessed with the Cognitive Emotion Regulation Questionnaire' (CERQ).A total of 48 servicemen cooperated. A total of 248 injuries; 54% of which affected the extremities. In 9 victims an amputation of the lower extremity was performed; 4 of them had to have a double amputation. 31 servicemen were still receiving specialist medical care at the time of the interview. 39 servicemen had to adjust their career plans. The mean quality of life, measured by EQ-5D, had an index score of 0.72 (Dutch population norm: 0.88). The mean score on the LEFS was 58 (maximum score 80). Changes in mobility and occupation appeared to be predictive factors for quality of life.The quality of life and functional level of Dutch military personnel who were injured in combat in Afghanistan seemed to be lower than in the general population after 2.3 years. For a large part this could be explained by the level of mobility and occupation.To establish the level of musculoskeletal fitness and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in sedentary office workers with sub-acute, non-specific low back pain, and compare the results with reference data for healthy sedentary office workers.Cross-sectional study.Occupational secondary prevention setting.One-hundred and ninety sedentary office workers: 118 suffering from sub-acute, non-specific low back pain (47 men and 71 women) and 72 age-matched healthy controls (30 men and 42 women).Participants were assessed using a musculoskeletal fitness battery (sit-and-reach test, hand grip strength, lumbar and abdominal trunk muscle endurance, and back scratch test), the EuroQol-5D-3L, Oswestry Disability Questionnaire, and Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire. Data for both genders and conditions were compared.Subjects with low back pain achieved lower scores in most of the fitness tests compared with healthy, age-matched controls. Trunk flexor and extensor endurance demonstrated the greatest difference in both men {flexion: median difference 59 [95% confidence interval (CI) 26 to 90]seconds; extension: median difference 24 [95% CI 20 to 68]} and women [flexion: median difference 59 (95% CI 5 to 85.50)seconds; extension: median difference 41 (95% CI 30 to 55)seconds]. Differences in HRQoL were also demonstrated between groups for both men and women, with the exception of the pain/discomfort dimension in women.Sedentary office workers with sub-acute, non-specific low back pain had lower musculoskeletal fitness than healthy, age-matched controls, with the main difference found in endurance of the trunk muscles. HRQoL was also lower in workers with low back pain.Moderate haemophilia is the rarest form of haemophilia. This study aims to assess short- and long-term outcome, including its association with treatment, in patients with moderate haemophilia.Seventy-five patients with moderate haemophilia (1-5% factor VIII/ factor IX activity), without a history of inhibitors, treated at the van Creveldkliniek, Utrecht (NL) were included in the study. Life-long data on bleeding and treatment were collected. Joints were evaluated using the Haemophilia Joint Health Score. Adults completed questionnaires on activity (HAL) and quality of life (SF-36, EQ5D).The median age of the patients was 37 years (IQR 23-52 years) and haemophilia A was diagnosed in 89%. Bleeding frequency was low: the median annual bleeding rate was 2.0 bleeds/ year (IQR 0.8-3.7 bleeds/year), including a median of 0 joint bleeds/year (IQR 0.8-3.7 bleeds/year). Joint function was good: 82% scored<10 out of 126 points of the Haemophilia Joint Health Score (HJHS). Nevertheless, 29% of patients with moderate haemophilia had a history of prophylaxis, because of a high bleeding frequency. Median age at first joint bleed was 4.8 years (IQR 3.5-8.5). Use of prophylaxis was more associated with age at first joint bleed (P<0.01) than with baseline factor activity (P=0.12). Most patients (52%) who suffered their first joint bleed before the age of 5 years required prophylaxis later in life.The majority of patients with moderate haemophilia have few bleeds and complications; however, a considerable subset of patients with a more severe bleeding pattern need prophylactic treatment. These latter patients may be identified by the onset of joint bleeding before the age of 5 years.Since the introduction of prophylaxis, physicians have tried to convert the clinical phenotype of severe haemophilia (SH) into that of moderate haemophilia (MH), but the outcome of patients with SH has never been compared to that of patients with MH.The outcome of 80 patients with SH on long-term, intermediate dose prophylaxis was compared to that of 40 patients with MH in a single-centre study. Data on treatment history, activities (assessed by the IPAQ and HAL), quality of life (assessed by the SF-36 and EQ5D), and 5-year bleeding and clotting factor consumption were collected for patients born between 1970-1995.The median age of the patients was 24 years (IQR 18-30). All patients with SH received long-term prophylaxis, which was started at a median age of 4.8 years (IQR 3.2-6.2). Among the patients with MH, ten (25%) received prophylaxis, starting at a median age of 10.8 years (IQR 3.8-13.8). The annual number of bleeds, including joint bleeds, was significantly higher in patients with SH (median 2.0 joint bleeds/year, IQR =0.8-3.7) than in patients with MH (median 0.8 joint bleeds/year, IQR =0-1.2). Due to greater use of prophylaxis, the annual clotting factor consumption of SH patients (median 2,120 IU/kg; IQR 1,514-2,768), was higher than that of MH patients (median 133 IU/kg; IQR 49-468). Patients with SH showed slightly but significantly more loss of clinical function (assessed by the Haemophilia Joint Health Score): a median of 8 points (IQR 3-15) vs a median of 2 points, IQR 0-6). Quality of life, as measured by the SF-36, EQ5D and physical activity, was similar between patients with disease of different severity, as well as compared to that of the general population.When comparing unselected cohorts, the bleeding pattern of patients with SH does not appear to be fully converted to that of the milder bleeding pattern of MH by long-term, intermediate-dose prophylaxis, although activities and quality of life were similar.Several studies have documented a significant association between vasomotor symptoms (VMS) and a decrement in health outcomes among postmenopausal women, but these studies have mostly focused on the US. The aim of the current study was to broaden this investigation by examining the burden of VMS symptoms in the European Union with respect to both humanistic and economic outcomes.All women aged 40-75 years who completed the 2010 5EU (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the UK) National Health and Wellness Survey were identified as potential respondents and invited to participate in an additional cross-sectional, Internet-based survey. Only postmenopausal women from 5EU were included in the current analyses (n = 3801). VMS was assessed using the Menopausal Rating Scale, and was used in multiple regression models as the primary predictor of health status (EQ-5D-3L), work productivity loss, and the number of physician visits due to menopause.Over half (50.3%) of postmenopausal women experienced either mild (24.6%), moderate (17.6%), or severe (8.1%) VMS. Controlling for confounding variables, mild (b = -0.03, P < 0.05), moderate (b = -0.07, P < 0.05), and severe VMS (b = -0.17, P < 0.05) were each associated with worse health utilities relative to women without VMS. Similarly, increased resource use (b = 1.04-2.39, all P < 0.05), overall work impairment (b = 8.71-19.69, all P < 0.05), and activity impairment (b = 11.22-24.54, all P < 0.05) were also observed as VMS severity increased (with each b representing the difference between each level of severity and the reference category).These results suggest a high prevalence of VMS in Western Europe. These symptoms are also associated with both humanistic and economic outcomes. Improved management of VMS may be able to increase the health status and ability to work productively as well as reduce societal direct costs.The benefits of minimally invasive surgical techniques in total hip arthroplasty (THA) are well known, but concerns about applying those techniques in obese patients are controversial. We prospectively compared patients with increased body mass index (BMI ≥ 30) undergoing THA with normal weight patients.A total of 134 patients admitted for unilateral THA were randomised to have surgery through either a transgluteal or a minimally invasive approach (MicroHip). In each group a BMI ≥ 30 was used to define obese patients. Pre- and early post-operative demographics, intraoperative data, baseline haematological values, hip function (Harris Hip Score, Oxford Hip Score) and quality of life (EQ-5D) were assessed with follow-up at three months.Duration of surgery, blood loss, C-reactive protein levels, radiographic measurements and complication rates were comparable in all groups. There was a tendency for lower serum creatine kinase levels in the MicroHip group. Intraoperative fluoroscopic time and dose area products were significantly elevated in patients with a BMI exceeding 30 regardless of the approach used. Time points of mobilisation, length of hospital stay and functional outcome measurements were similar in the different weight groups.Our data suggest that obese patients gain similar benefit from MicroHip THA as do non-obese patients. The results of this study should be further investigated to assess long-term survivorship.To evaluate the relationship between disability and both health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and caregiver burden in patients with upper limb poststroke spasticity.Multicenter open-label study.Thirty-five sites in North America.Patients (N = 279) with upper limb poststroke spasticity.Post hoc analyses of data from an open-label study were performed to estimate HRQoL and caregiver burden at study baseline across levels of disability in 4 problem domains: hygiene, dressing, limb posture, and pain. Disability severity in these areas was determined by using the 4-point Disability Assessment Scale rated by the physicians.HRQoL measured by the patient-reported EuroQol 5 Dimensions questionnaire and the Stroke-Adapted Sickness Impact Profile and caregiver burden.At study baseline, increasing disability in the hygiene, dressing, and pain domains of the Disability Assessment Scale was associated with diminishing HRQoL scores (P < .002) measured by the EuroQol 5 Dimensions. By using the Stroke-Adapted Sickness Impact Profile, greater disability scores in all problem domains were significantly associated with higher overall dysfunction scores (P ≤ .05). Within the physical dimension of the Stroke-Adapted Sickness Impact Profile, significant associations also were observed in all domains. At baseline, caregiver burden was significantly related to increasing levels of hygiene and dressing domain severity (P ≤ .05). Caregiver assistance requirement increased from approximately 9.0-28.2 hours per week in the hygiene domain and 3.3-32.1 hours per week in the dressing domain as disability increased from "none" to "severe."In patients with upper limb poststroke spasticity, increasing disability in the hygiene, dressing, and pain domains of the Disability Assessment Scale were associated with diminishing HRQoL. Furthermore, these patients required caregiver assistance proportionally related to the severity of their disability in the hygiene and dressing domains.Current asthma management guidelines are based on the level of asthma control. The impact of asthma control on health care resources and quality of life (QoL) is insufficiently studied. EUCOAST study was designed to describe costs and QoL in adult patients according to level of asthma control in France and Spain.An observational cost of illness study was conducted simultaneously in both countries among patients age greater or equal to 18 with a diagnosis of asthma for at least 12 months. Patients were recruited prospectively by GPs in 2010 in four waves to avoid a seasonal bias. Health care resources utilization of the three months before the inclusion was collected through physician questionnaires. Asthma control was evaluated using 2009 GINA criteria over a 3-month period. QoL was assessed using EQ-5D-3L®.2,671 patients (France: 1,154; Spain: 1,517) were enrolled. Asthma was controlled in 40.6% [95% CI: 37.7%-43.4%] and 29.9% [95% CI: 27.6%-32.3%] of French and Spanish patients respectively.For all types of costs, the percentage of patients using health care resources varied significantly according to the level of asthma control. The average cost (euros/3-months/patient) of controlled asthma was €85.4 (SD: 153.5) in France compared with €314.0 (SD: 2,160.4) for partially controlled asthma and €537.9 (SD: 2,355.7) for uncontrolled asthma (p<0.0001). In Spain, the corresponding figures were €152.6 (SD: 162.1), €241.2 (SD: 266.8), and €556.8 (SD: 762.4). EQ-5D-3L® score was higher (p<0.0001) in patients with controlled asthma compared to partially controlled and uncontrolled asthma in both countries (respectively 0.88; 0.78; 0.63 in France and 0.89; 0.82; 0.69 in Spain).In both countries, patients presenting with uncontrolled asthma had a significantly higher asthma costs and lower scores of Qol compared to the others.The goal of this study was to assess serial changes in patient health-related quality of life (HRQOL) over time and identify predictors of patient benefit.Severe aortic stenosis reduces the length and quality of a patient's life. Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is superior to standard medical therapy and noninferior to surgical aortic valve replacement for 1-year mortality. HRQOL is an important outcome measure for which there is limited evidence in TAVI populations.A total of 102 patients (mean age 80 ± 0.6 years; 49% male) undergoing TAVI consented to participate. Two HRQOL questionnaires-the social functioning (SF)-12v2 with physical component summaries (PCS) and mental component summaries (MCS) and the EQ-5D (with a visual analog scale [VAS])-were completed at baseline, 30 days, 6 months, and 1 year according to the recommendations of the Valve Academic Research Consortium. A SF-6D utility measure was calculated from the SF-12 survey.HRQOL significantly improved over 1 year (PCS p = 0.02; EQ-5D p = 0.02; VAS p = 0.01; SF-6D p = 0.03), becoming similar to age-adjusted U.S. population norms. The greatest change occurred from baseline to 30 days (p < 0.001), with further significant improvements to 6 months (p < 0.01). An insignificant decline occurred between 6 months and 1 year (p > 0.05), but a linear pattern of change remained for PCS, EQ-5D, and VAS (p < 0.05). Male sex (SF-6D p = 0.01) and increased operator experience (PCS, EQ-5D, and VAS p < 0.05) were independent predictors of a greater improvement in HRQOL.HRQOL significantly improved early after TAVI and was maintained out to 1 year. Patient factors, procedural complications, and operator experience are predictors of health benefit at 1 year.As a consequence of the improved survival of patients and of cost-effectiveness requirements for new treatments, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) issues have gained increasing attention in colorectal cancer (CRC). This cross-sectional study assesses HRQoL in several health states of CRC and explores factors influencing HRQoL.Five hundred and eight Finnish CRC patients (aged 26-96 years; colon cancer 56%; women 47%) assessed their HRQoL using generic 15D and EQ-5D and cancer-specific EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaires. Patients were divided into five groups: primary treatment, rehabilitation, remission, metastatic disease and palliative care. The patients' HRQoL was compared with population reference values. Multivariate modelling was used to find factors associated with HRQoL scores.The HRQoL of CRC patients is fairly good and comparable with that of the standardized general population except for those under palliative care. The mean 15D score of patients in the primary treatment group was 0.889 (95% CI 0.869-0.914), in rehabilitation 0.877 (0.855-0.907), in remission 0.886 (0.875-0.903), in metastatic disease 0.860 (0.844-0.878) and in palliative care 0.758 (0.716-0.808). The respective EQ-5D scores were 0.760 (0.699-0.823), 0.835 (0.777-0.881), 0.850 (0.828-0.882), 0.820 (0.783-0.858) and 0.643 (0.546-0.747). Multivariate analysis showed that fatigue, pain, age and financial difficulties had a marked negative impact on HRQoL.The mean HRQoL scores of CRC patients varied considerably depending on the HRQoL instrument used, but remained surprisingly good up to the palliative stage. In addition to age- and cancer-related symptoms, financial difficulties also had a clear negative impact on HRQoL, which needs to be taken into consideration when supporting patient HRQoL.In adults, personality disorders are associated with a low quality of life and high societal costs. To explore whether these findings also apply to adolescents, 131 adolescent patients were recruited from a mental health care institute in The Netherlands. Axis I and Axis II disorders were diagnosed using semi-structured interviews. The EuroQol EQ-5D was used to measure quality of life and costs were measured by the Trimbos and Institute for Medical Technology Assessment Questionnaire on Costs Associated with Psychiatric Illness. The mean EQ-5D index value was 0.55. The mean direct medical cost in the year prior to treatment was €14,032 per patient. The co-occurrence of Axis I and Axis II disorders was a significant predictor of a low quality of life. Direct medical costs were higher for the depressive personality disorder. This study shows that the burden of disease among adolescents with personality pathology is high. This high burden provides evidence to suggest that further research and development of (cost-)effective treatment strategies for this population may be worthwhile.To assess the impact of diabetic retinopathy (DR) and diabetic macular edema (DME) on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in type 1 and type 2 diabetes using the EuroQoL EQ-5D generic multi-attribute utility instrument (MAUI).In this cross-sectional study, 577 patients with diabetes were recruited from specialized eye clinics in Melbourne, Australia. Each patient underwent clinical, biochemical, and anthropometric assessments. The severity of combined DR and DME (no DR/DME; mild NPDR [nonproliferative DR (NPDR)] and/or mild DME; moderate NPDR and/or moderate DME; and vision-threatening DR (VTDR) (severe NPDR or PDR and/or severe DME) in the worse eye was calculated. EQ-5D utility measures were the main outcome. Because the distribution of the utility measures was skewed, independent associations were explored using multivariate quantile regression models (five quintiles, namely 15th, 30th, 45th, 60th, 75th) ranging from poorest to highest HRQoL.Median age of the participants was 66 years (range, 26-90 years). Of the 577 participants, 223 (38.7%) had no DR/DME, 35 (6.1%) had mild NPDR/DME, 127 (22.0%) had moderate NPDR/DME, and 192 (33.3%) had VTDR. In adjusted models, neither presence nor severity of DR/DME was significantly associated with any quantile of the EQ-5D. In contrast, the presence of diabetic complications (other than DR) (β = -0.153; SE = 0.052; P < 0.001), other nonocular comorbidities (β = -0.115; SE = 0.038; P < 0.01), and higher body mass index (β = -0.007; SE = 0.002; P < 0.001) were all associated with worse HRQoL.Using a generic MAUI, the EQ-5D, the authors found that the presence or severity of DR/DME and concomitant vision loss were not associated with any quantile of HRQoL. These findings suggest that the EQ-5D lacks sensitivity in assessing the impact of the severity of DR/DME on HRQoL parameters and that condition-specific instruments may better capture the full impact of the association.Validation of the PROSQOLI questionnaire adapted to Spanish, pursing an instrument to evaluate, in the common clinical practice, the quality of life in patients with locally advanced or disseminated prostate cancer in our country.A cross-sectional prospective study was designed in 750 patients (150 centers) with disseminated or locally advanced prostate cancer (TNM criterion) who came to the scheduled check-up. Socio-demographic and clinical data of the participants were collected. The subjects filled out the PROSQOLI and EQ-5D questionnaires. The analysis included 561 cases that met the selection criteria. The psychometric characteristics (feasibility, validity and reliability) of the adapted PROSQOLI questionnaire were studied.Mean age was 73.63 (7.59) years. A total of 72.01% of the participants had locally advanced disease. In 28.16%, the primary treatment was radiotherapy, in 12.30% it was prostatectomy. A total of 83.48% received hormone treatment. The mean for each scale of the PROSQOLI questionnaire varied from 68.86 to 74.51. The percentage of no response was less than 3% for each scale. The percentage of subjects with minimum score in any scale was negligible, and the maximum score did not surpass 5%. Mean time to fill out the questionnaire was 109.42 (101.00) seconds. Cronbach's α coefficient was 0.937 and the total item correlation was superior to 0.7 for all the items. Correlations with the EQ-5D questionnaire were moderate. Scores on the questionnaire were associated to all the parameters studied related to the disease.The adapted questionnaire has adequate psychometric properties for its use in research and in the clinical practice.Functional results of reversed total prostheses (RTP) have-to a very limited degree-been compared with those of other shoulder prosthesis types. The aim of our study was to compare results of four different types of shoulder prostheses in terms of function, pain, and quality of life (QoL).Questionnaires were completed by 859 patients with shoulder prostheses registered in the Norwegian Arthroplasty Register. Patients with osteoarthritis (OA), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), or fracture sequela (FS) were included. Symptoms and function were assessed using the Oxford Shoulder Score (OSS, scale 0-48), and the EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) was used to assess QoL.Best functional results were obtained using conventional total prostheses (TPs) and RTPs -mean OSS improvement 18 and 16 units, respectively, vs 11 with hemiprostheses (HPs). For patients with OA, TPs performed best; for those with RA and FS, RTPs performed best; and those with HPs had the worst results in all diagnostic groups. The greatest improvement in QoL was seen in patients with TPs and RTPs.Conventional TPs provide the best improvement in pain, function and QoL in OA patients; RTPs are superior in patients with RA and FS.To assess the effect of ranibizumab treatment for neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nvAMD) on patients' preferences and vision-related quality of life (VRQoL) in a routine clinical setting.55 treatment naïve patients were examined before and after the initial upload of three monthly injections of 0.5 mg ranibizumab. VRQoL was assessed using a Rasch-adjusted NEI-VFQ-25. Time trade-off (TTO), standard gamble, a visual analogue scale and the European Quality of Life Questionnaire (EQ-5D) were used to calculate utilities, and multiple logistic regression models were conducted to determine independent factors associated with utilities.Mean ± SD age was 75 ± 7 years, and 40 patients (73%) were female. Mean ± SD best-corrected visual acuity of the treated eye increased from 20/80 at baseline (logMAR 0.60 ± 0.35) to 20/63 (logMAR 0.52 ± 0.36; p=0.020) at follow-up after three injections. Utility score increases ranged from 2 utils (standard gamble anchored for death) up to 6.6 utils (EQ-5D German TTO, p=0.023) and visual functioning improved (Rasch adjusted composite NEI-VFQ score 50 ± 21 to 54 ± 21, p=0.042). Whether the worse or better eye was treated was not significantly associated with improvements in utility or VRQoL, whereas VA improvement in the treated eye was associated with an increase in utility (TTO, p=0.020).TTO performed best in this sample of elderly nvAMD patients undergoing anti-VEGF therapy. Better or worse eye treatment was not associated with a change in reported utilities or visual functioning in patients with newly diagnosed nvAMD. Directly elicited, vision-specific utilities gained with TTO seem to be sensitive to a change in vision status.Prophylactic treatment in severe hemophilia is very effective but is limited by cost issues. The implementation of 2 different prophylactic regimens in The Netherlands and Sweden since the 1970s may be considered a natural experiment. We compared the costs and outcomes of Dutch intermediate- and Swedish high-dose prophylactic regimens for patients with severe hemophilia (factor VIII/IX < 1 IU/dL) born between 1970 and 1994, using prospective standardized outcome assessment and retrospective collection of cost data. Seventy-eight Dutch and 50 Swedish patients, median age 24 years (range, 14-37 years), were included. Intermediate-dose prophylaxis used less factor concentrate (median: Netherlands, 2100 IU/kg per year [interquartile range (IQR), 1400-2900 IU/kg per year] vs Sweden, 4000 IU/kg per year [IQR, 3000-4900 IU/kg per year]); (P < .01). Clinical outcome was slightly inferior for the intermediate-dose regimen (P < .01) for 5-year bleeding (median, 1.3 [IQR, 0.8-2.7] vs 0 [IQR, 0.0-2.0] joint bleeds/y) and joint health (Haemophilia Joint Health Score >10 of 144 points in 46% vs 11% of participants), although social participation and quality of life were similar. Annual total costs were 66% higher for high-dose prophylaxis (mean, 180 [95% confidence interval, 163 - 196] × US$1000 for Dutch vs 298 [95% confidence interval, 271-325]) × US$1000 for Swedish patients; (P < .01). At group level, the incremental benefits of high-dose prophylaxis appear limited. At the patient level, prophylaxis should be tailored individually, and many patients may do well receiving lower doses of concentrate without compromising safety.To estimate the cost-effectiveness of trabectedin plus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) compared with PLD alone for the treatment of patients with relapsed platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer who are not expected to benefit from retreatment with platinum-based therapies based on the final survival data published in October 2012.A decision-analytic model estimated the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained for trabectedin plus PLD compared with PLD alone from the UK National Health Service and Personal Social Services perspective over a lifetime horizon. Mean progression-free survival and overall survival were calculated by using parametric survival distributions adjusted for imbalances discovered in the final survival data. Between-arm imbalances included the platinum-free interval, cancer antigen 125 (CA-125), and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance score. Cost categories included drug, administration, medical management, and treatment of adverse events. Quality of life was measured by using the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire. Uncertainty was addressed by deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis.Over a lifetime horizon, trabectedin plus PLD increased mean progression-free survival by 3.0 months and overall survival by 9.7 months compared with PLD alone. The additional cost and QALYs of trabectedin plus PLD were £18,476 and 0.49, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £38,026 per QALY. Sensitivity analyses showed that results were sensitive to platinum-free interval adjustment and the choice of survival distributions.The analysis estimated a significant improvement in mean overall survival and incremental cost per QALY compared with that calculated in the original National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence assessment, which was based on immature survival data.Pedometers provide a simple, cost effective means of motivating individuals to increase walking yet few studies have considered if short term changes in walking behaviour can be maintained in the long-term. The role of physical activity consultations in such interventions is unclear. The purpose of this study was to assess the sustainability of pedometer-based interventions and empirically examine the role of physical activity consultations using long-term results of a community-based walking study.79 low active Scottish men and women (63 women and 16 men) from the Walking for Wellbeing in the West intervention study were randomly assigned to receive either: Group 1; pedometer-based walking programme plus physical activity consultations or Group 2; pedometer-based walking programme and minimal advice. Step counts (Omron HJ-109E Step-O-Meter pedometer), 7 day recall of physical activity (IPAQ long), mood (PANAS) and quality of life (EuroQol EQ-5D) were assessed pre-intervention and 12, 24 and 48 weeks after receiving the intervention. Body mass, body mass index and waist and hip circumference were assessed pre-intervention and 12 and 24 weeks after receiving the intervention. Analyses were performed on an intention to treat basis (baseline value carried forward for missing data) using mixed-factorial ANOVAs and follow-up t-tests.A significant main effect of time (p < 0.001) was found for step-counts attributable to significant increases in steps/day between: pre-intervention (M = 6941, SD = 3047) and 12 weeks (M = 9327, SD = 4136), t(78) = - 6.52, p < 0.001, d = 0.66; pre-intervention and 24 weeks (M = 8804, SD = 4145), t(78) = - 4.82, p < 0.001, d = 0.52; and pre-intervention and 48 weeks (M = 8450, SD = 3855), t(78) = - 4.15, p < 0.001, d = 0.44. Significant effects were found for several variables of self-reported physical activity, mood and quality of life and are discussed. No other significant effects in health related outcomes were found.Both interventions successfully increased and maintained step counts over 12 months. Physical activity consultations may encourage individuals to be active in other ways beyond walking and to reduce sitting time.Current Controlled Trials Ltd ISRCTN88907382.People with Parkinson's (PwP) experience frequent and recurrent falls. As these falls may have devastating consequences, there is an urgent need to identify cost-effective interventions with the potential to reduce falls in PwP. The purpose of this economic evaluation is to compare the costs and cost-effectiveness of a targeted exercise programme versus usual care for PwP who were at risk of falling.One hundred and thirty participants were recruited through specialist clinics, primary care and Parkinson's support groups and randomised to either an exercise intervention or usual care. Health and social care utilisation and health-related quality of life (EQ-5D) were assessed over the 20 weeks of the study (ten-week intervention period and ten-week follow up period), and these data were complete for 93 participants. Incremental cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) was estimated. The uncertainty around costs and QALYs was represented using cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.The mean cost of the intervention was £76 per participant. Although in direction of favour of exercise intervention, there was no statistically significant differences between groups in total healthcare (-£128, 95% CI: -734 to 478), combined health and social care costs (£-35, 95% CI: -817 to 746) or QALYs (0.03, 95% CI: -0.02 to 0.03) at 20 weeks. Nevertheless, exploration of the uncertainty surrounding these estimates suggests there is more than 80% probability that the exercise intervention is a cost-effective strategy relative to usual care.Whilst we found no difference between groups in total healthcare, total social care cost and QALYs, analyses indicate that there is high probability that the exercise intervention is cost-effective compared with usual care. These results require confirmation by larger trial-based economic evaluations and over the longer term.Increasing use of the Quality-Adjusted Life-Year to inform resource allocation decision-making has highlighted the importance of relating clinical and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) outcomes in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients.To investigate the relationship between the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) and HRQoL utility, using the 5-level EQ-5D (EQ-5D-5L). The discriminatory power of the EQ-5D-5L was assessed using Shannon's indices.A linear decline in utility was observed with changes in EDSS score from 0 to 6, after which point the relationship exhibited greater variability. Mean utility values ranged from -0.22 at EDSS 9 to 0.88 at EDSS 0. We found that the discriminative capacity of the EQ-5D-5L was considerably lower for the domains self-care and anxiety/depression, compared with other health-related domains.In its first reported use in an MS population, the EQ-5D-5L displayed good discriminatory capacity, although performance differed between the various domains of health, with evidence of a ceiling effect present in the domains of self-care and anxiety/depression. The EQ-5D-5L demonstrated a high correlation with EDSS in our MS cohort up to EDSS 6, after which point the utility valuation of severe health states exhibited much greater variability. Utility estimates from this study may be used in economic evaluations of disease-modifying therapies in MS, to inform resource-allocation decisions.How should we measure the value of long-term (social) care? This paper describes a care-related quality of life instrument (ASCOT) and considers aspects of its validity. In particular the aim is to assess whether ASCOT is better suited to measuring the impact of long-term care services than the EQ5D health-related quality of life measure. Long-term care services tend to be more concerned with addressing the day-to-day consequences of long-term conditions. As such, a quality of life measure should not be overly focused on the potential impact of services on personal ability and should instead consider how services directly help people to function in everyday life. Construct validity was judged by assessing the degree to which measured quality of life improvement was consistent with the theorised positive correlation between quality of life and the use of home care services. In a 2008/9 sample of people using care services in England, we found that the impact of service use was significant when measured by ASCOT, but not significant when using EQ5D. The results support our hypothesis that ASCOT has greater construct validity in this case.To evaluate health-related quality of life (health utility) scores in patients with diabetes receiving insulin degludec (IDeg) or insulin glargine (IGlar).Patient-level data from six, randomized, controlled, open-label, multicentre, confirmatory, treat-to-target trials of 26- or 52 weeks' duration were pooled in this analysis. The Short Form 36 (SF-36) version-2 health questionnaire was completed by patients at baseline and end-of-trial. SF-36 scores for 4001 individual patients were then mapped onto the EuroQol-5D health utility scale, which has a range from -0.59 (a state worse than death) to 1.00 (perfect health).IDeg treatment exhibited a significant improvement in health status of 0.005 (CI: 0.0006; 0.009) points compared with IGlar (p < 0.024). Gender, region, trial and age also had a significant influence on estimated utility scores as did baseline utility scores, p < 0.05. Prior to the removal of interaction variables a difference of 0.008 points was observed, p < 0.045. Previous insulin treatment did not have an impact on the final outcome.This study shows that IDeg is associated with a modest, but statistically significant, improvement in health utility compared with IGlar in patients with diabetes.To evaluate the associations between visual acuity and self-reported visual function; visual acuity and health-related quality of life (QoL) metrics; a summary measure of self-reported visual function and health-related QoL; and individual domains of self-reported visual function and health-related QoL in patients with uveitis.Best-corrected visual acuity, vision-related functioning as assessed by the NEI VFQ-25, and health-related QoL as assessed by the SF-36 and EuroQoL EQ-5D questionnaires were obtained at enrollment in a clinical trial of uveitis treatments. Multivariate regression and Spearman correlations were used to evaluate associations between visual acuity, vision-related function, and health-related QoL.Among the 255 patients, median visual acuity in the better-seeing eyes was 20/25, the vision-related function score indicated impairment (median, 60), and health-related QoL scores were within the normal population range. Better visual acuity was predictive of higher visual function scores (P ≤ 0.001), a higher SF-36 physical component score, and a higher EQ-5D health utility score (P < 0.001). The vision-specific function score was predictive of all general health-related QoL (P < 0.001). The correlations between visual function score and general quality of life measures were moderate (ρ = 0.29-0.52).The vision-related function score correlated positively with visual acuity and moderately positively with general QoL measures. Cost-utility analyses relying on changes in generic healthy utility measures will be more likely to detect changes when there are clinically meaningful changes in vision-related function, rather than when there are only changes in visual acuity. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00132691.).To identify risk factors present at admission in adult patients hospitalised due to influenza virus infection during the 2009/10 and 2010/11 seasons--including whether infection was from pandemic or seasonal influenza A infections--that were associated with the likelihood of developing severe pneumonia with multilobar involvement and shock.Prospective cohort study. Patients hospitalised due to influenza virus infection were recruited. We collected information on sociodemographic characteristics, pre-existing medical conditions, vaccinations, toxic habits, previous medications, exposure to social environments, and EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D). Severe pneumonia with multilobar involvement and/or shock (SPAS) was the primary outcome of interest. We constructed two multivariate logistic regression models to explain the likelihood of developing SPAS and to create a clinical prediction rule for developing SPAS that includes clinically relevant variables.Laboratory-confirmed A(H1N1)pdm09, EQ-5D utility score 7 days before admission, more than one comorbidity, altered mental status, dyspnoea on arrival, days from onset of symptoms, and influenza season were associated with SPAS. In addition, not being vaccinated against seasonal influenza in the previous year, anaemia, altered mental status, fever and dyspnoea on arrival at hospital, difficulties in performing activities of daily living in the previous 7 days, and days from onset of symptoms to arrival at hospital were related to the likelihood of SPAS (area under the curve value of 0.75; Hosmer-Lemeshow p value of 0.84).These variables should be taken into account by physicians evaluating a patient affected by influenza as additional information to that provided by the usual risk scores.The purpose of the present study was to investigate our 6-10 year results for knee dislocations with posterolateral corner (PLC) involvement, where a primary repair was performed laterally, the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstructed, but the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) was left without surgery. Four consecutive patients with knee dislocation with complete rupture of the ACL, the PCL and the PLC were operated on by the same surgeon with similar technique. There were no other major injuries. We used strict inclusion criteria to get as homogenous population as possible. The ACL injuries were reconstructed and the PLC primary repaired, but the PCLs were not reconstructed. After 1-5 years, KOOS, EQ5D and work performance were recorded. Five years later these scores were repeated, with addition of the Lysholms and Tegners, standing radiographs and posterior stress radiographs. All patients were working fulltime from 1 year postoperatively onwards. One patient had returned to high-level sports activities, but the other three had lowered their activity. One patient had slight joint space narrowing at standing radiographs, but the other three appeared normal. All patients had increased posterior laxity with stress radiographs, and the tibiae were positioned more posterior with standard standing radiographs. Patients with knee dislocations where the PCL had not been reconstructed performed fairly good after more than 6 years. This study does not show that leaving the PCL in a dislocated knee is better than reconstructing it, but it may be an acceptable option.To map health outcome related variables from a national register, not part of any validated instrument, with EQ-5D weights among stroke patients.We used two cross-sectional data sets including patient characteristics, outcome variables and EQ-5D weights from the national Swedish stroke register. Three regression techniques were used on the estimation set (n=272): ordinary least squares (OLS), Tobit, and censored least absolute deviation (CLAD). The regression coefficients for "dressing", "toileting", "mobility", "mood", "general health" and "proxy-responders" were applied to the validation set (n=272), and the performance was analysed with mean absolute error (MAE) and mean square error (MSE).The number of statistically significant coefficients varied by model, but all models generated consistent coefficients in terms of sign. Mean utility was underestimated in all models (least in OLS) and with lower variation (least in OLS) compared to the observed. The maximum attainable EQ-5D weight ranged from 0.90 (OLS) to 1.00 (Tobit and CLAD). Health states with utility weights <0.5 had greater errors than those with weights ≥ 0.5 (P<0.01).This study indicates that it is possible to map non-validated health outcome measures from a stroke register into preference-based utilities to study the development of stroke care over time, and to compare with other conditions in terms of utility.Health utility combines health related quality of life and mortality to produce a generic outcome measure reflecting both morbidity and mortality. It has not been widely used as an outcome measure in evaluations of emergency care and little is known about the feasibility of measurement, typical values obtained or baseline factors that predict health utility. We aimed to measure health utility after emergency medical admission, to compare health utility to age, gender and regional population norms, and identify independent predictors of health utility.We selected 5760 patients across three hospitals who were admitted to hospital by ambulance as a medical emergency. The EQ-5D questionnaire was mailed to all who were still alive 30 days after admission. Health utility was estimated by applying tariff values to the EQ-5D responses or imputing a value of zero for those who had died. Multivariable analysis was used to identify independent predictors of health utility at 30 days.Responses were received from 2488 (47.7%) patients, while 541 (9.4%) had died. Most respondents reported some or severe problems with each aspect of health. Mean health utility was 0.49 (standard deviation 0.35) in survivors and 0.45 (0.36) including non-survivors. Some 75% had health utility below their expected value (mean loss 0.32, 95% confidence interval 0.31 to 0.33) and 11% had health utility below zero (worse than death). On multivariable modelling, reduced health utility was associated with increased age and lower GCS, varied according to ICD10 code and was lower among females, patients with recent hospital admission, steroid therapy, or history of chronic respiratory disease, malignancy, diabetes or epilepsy.Health utility can be measured after emergency medical admission, although responder bias may be significant. Health utility after emergency medical admission is poor compared to population norms. We have identified independent predictors or health utility that need to be measured and taken into account in non-randomized evaluations of emergency care.Health-related quality of life studies among adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus, using the EQ-5D, have been short term and have not assessed change over years. This study assessed the change in health status and health-related quality of life over 5 years among individuals with and without diabetes.Respondents to the US Study to Help Improve Early evaluation and management of risk factors Leading to Diabetes (SHIELD) completed the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) at baseline (2004) and 5 years later (2009). Visual analog scale (VAS) score and health index score were computed at baseline and year 5, and the change over 5 years was measured for individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and those without diabetes, and T2DM adults with and without diabetic complications. Linear regression models were used to determine change in EQ-5D score, controlling for age, gender, race, education, household income, and body mass index (BMI).There was significantly greater decline in the EQ-5D index score in the T2DM group (-0.031 [SD 0.158]), compared with those without diabetes (-0.016 [0.141], p = 0.001). Compared with respondents without diabetes, those with T2DM had a larger reduction in EQ-5D index score, after controlling for demographics (p = 0.001). EQ-5D VAS score declined over 5 years for both groups: -1.42 (18.1) for the T2DM group, and -0.63 (15.8) for the group without diabetes, but the between-group difference was not significant either before (p = 0.09) or after (p = 0.12), controlling for demographics. T2DM respondents with diabetic complications had a greater decline in EQ-5D scores than T2DM respondents without complications (p < 0.05).Over a 5-year period, health status of respondents with T2DM declined significantly compared with those with no diabetes, indicating that the burden of the disease has a long-term detrimental impact. This decline in health status is likely to impact utility scores (fewer quality-adjusted life years) for economic evaluations.Despite promising evidence that laparoscopic fundoplication provides better short-term relief of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) than continued medical management, uncertainty remains about whether benefits are sustained and outweigh risks.To evaluate the long-term clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and safety of laparoscopic surgery among people with GORD requiring long-term medication and suitable for both surgical and medical management.Five-year follow-up of a randomised trial (with parallel non-randomised preference groups) comparing a laparoscopic surgery-based policy with a continued medical management policy. Cost-effectiveness was assessed alongside the trial using a NHS perspective for costs and expressing health outcomes in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).Follow-up was by annual postal questionnaire and selective hospital case notes review; initial recruitment in 21 UK hospitals.Questionnaire responders among the 810 original participants. At entry, all had documented evidence of GORD and symptoms for > 12 months. Questionnaire response rates (years 1-5) were from 89.5% to 68.9%.Three hundred and fifty-seven participants were recruited to the randomised comparison (178 randomised to surgical management and 179 randomised to continued medical management) and 453 to the preference groups (261 surgical management and 192 medical management). The surgeon chose the type of fundoplication.Primary: disease-specific outcome measure (the REFLUX questionnaire); secondary: Short Form questionnaire-36 items (SF-36), European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D), NHS resource use, reflux medication, complications.The randomised groups were well balanced. By 5 years, 63% in the randomised surgical group and 13% in the randomised medical management group had received a total or partial wrap fundoplication (85% and 3% in the preference groups), with few perioperative complications and no associated deaths. At 1 year (and 5 years) after surgery, 36% (41%) in the randomised surgical group - 15% (26%) of those who had surgery - were taking proton pump inhibitor medication compared with 87% (82%) in the randomised medical group. At each year, differences in the REFLUX score significantly favoured the randomised surgical group (a third of a SD; p< 0.01 at 5 years). SF-36 and EQ-5D scores also favoured surgery, but differences attenuated over time and were generally not statistically significant at 5 years. The worse the symptoms at trial entry, the larger the benefit observed after surgery. Those randomised to medical management who subsequently had surgery had low baseline scores that markedly improved after surgery. Following fundoplication, 3% had surgical treatment for a complication and 4% had subsequent reflux-related operations - most often revision of the wrap. Dysphagia, flatulence and inability to vomit were similar in the two randomised groups. The economic analysis indicated that surgery was the more cost-effective option for this patient group. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for surgery in the base case was £7028 per additional QALY; these findings were robust to changes in approaches and assumptions. The probability of surgery being cost-effective at a threshold of £20,000 per additional QALY was > 0.80 for all analyses.After 5 years, laparoscopic fundoplication continues to provide better relief of GORD symptoms with associated improved health-related quality of life. Complications of surgery were uncommon. Despite being initially more costly, a surgical policy is highly likely to be cost-effective.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN15517081.This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 17, No. 22. See the HTA programme website for further project information.To determine the long term clinical effectiveness of laparoscopic fundoplication as an alternative to drug treatment for chronic gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD).Five year follow-up of multicentre, pragmatic randomised trial (with parallel non-randomised preference groups).Initial recruitment in 21 UK hospitals.Responders to annual questionnaires among 810 original participants. At entry, all had had GORD for >12 months.The surgeon chose the type of fundoplication. Medical therapy was reviewed and optimised by a specialist. Subsequent management was at the discretion of the clinician responsible for care, usually in primary care.Primary outcome measure was self reported quality of life score on disease-specific REFLUX questionnaire. Other measures were health status (with SF-36 and EuroQol EQ-5D questionnaires), use of antireflux medication, and complications.By five years, 63% (112/178) of patients randomised to surgery and 13% (24/179) of those randomised to medical management had received a fundoplication (plus 85% (222/261) and 3% (6/192) of those who expressed a preference for surgery and for medical management). Among responders at 5 years, 44% (56/127) of those randomised to surgery were taking antireflux medication versus 82% (98/119) of those randomised to medical management. Differences in the REFLUX score significantly favoured the randomised surgery group (mean difference 8.5 (95% CI 3.9 to 13.1), P<0.001, at five years). SF-36 and EQ-5D scores also favoured surgery, but were not statistically significant at five years. After fundoplication, 3% (12/364) had surgical treatment for a complication and 4% (16) had subsequent reflux-related operations-most often revision of the wrap. Long term rates of dysphagia, flatulence, and inability to vomit were similar in the two randomised groups.After five years, laparoscopic fundoplication continued to provide better relief of GORD symptoms than medical management. Adverse effects of surgery were uncommon and generally observed soon after surgery. A small proportion had re-operations. There was no evidence of long term adverse symptoms caused by surgery.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN15517081.Patients with haemophilia A and inhibitors are at high risk for severe bleeding, progression of joint disease and deterioration of health-related quality of life (HRQoL). To determine the impact of prophylaxis with an activated prothrombin complex concentrate (aPCC) on HRQoL, HRQoL was assessed using the Short-Form (SF)-36 Health Survey and the EQ-5D questionnaire in subjects ≥ 14 years participating in a prospective, randomized, crossover study comparing 6 months of aPCC prophylaxis with 6 months of on-demand therapy. Eighteen of 19 patients completed the survey or questionnaire before and after the on-demand therapy and prophylaxis periods. A general trend towards improved HRQoL after prophylaxis was observed for the 18 evaluable patients in all SF-36 dimensions except for vitality/energy and physical functioning. After prophylaxis, 'good responders,' defined as patients experiencing ≥ 50% reduction in bleeding, exhibited statistically and clinically significant differences in the physical component score (P = 0.021), role - physical (P = 0.042), bodily pain (P = 0.015), and social functioning (P = 0.036). Similarly, the EQ-5D health profile showed a trend towards improvement after prophylaxis in all evaluable patients. Among the good responders, improvements did not differ from those observed after on-demand treatment. EQ visual analogue scale values were slightly improved following prophylaxis for all evaluable patients and the EQ-5D utility index improved in the good responders only. During prophylaxis, patients missed significantly fewer days from school or work because of bleeding than during on-demand treatment (P = 0.01). In conclusion, by significantly reducing bleeding frequency in good responders, aPCC prophylaxis improved HRQoL compared with on-demand treatment.To determine the value of a single item on patients' satisfaction with their condition for assessing outcome in four common surgical procedures.Four cohorts undergoing surgery for inguinal hernia (715), varicose veins (539), hip (8,383), or knee (10,187) disease. Patients completed questionnaires before and after surgery that included a single item on satisfaction with their health (based on the International Prostate Symptom Score [IPSS] Bother Question), disease-specific measures of symptoms/disability (Oxford Hip and Knee Scores, Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire), generic measures of symptoms/disability and of quality of life (QoL) (EQ [EuroQoL]-5D index), and single transitional items. Nonparametric Spearman's correlations explored relationships between measures.Before surgery, in all conditions, satisfaction was associated with other dimensions (P<0.05): generic QoL (r=0.5-0.7), disease-specific symptoms/disability (r=0.6-0.8), and generic symptoms/disability (r=0.2-0.4). Significant improvements in satisfaction after surgery correlated strongly with change in disease-specific symptoms/disability (r=0.6 for major operations and r=0.35 for minor surgery) and with single transitional items (r=0.4-0.6) but less so with change in generic QoL (0.3-0.4) and generic symptoms/disability (0.1-0.2).Inclusion of a single item on satisfaction provides additional insight into the impact of surgery.This study sought to map the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) and symptom variables onto the EQ-5D.A cross-sectional survey was conducted among adult US residents with self-reported sleep problems. Respondents provided demographic, comorbidity, and sleep-related information and had completed the ISI and the EQ-5D profile. Respondents were classified into ISI categories indicating no, threshold, moderate, or severe insomnia. Generalized linear models (GLM) were used to map the ISI's 7 items (Model I), summary scores (Model II), clinical categories (Model III), and insomnia symptoms (Model IV), onto the EQ-5D. We used 50% of the sample for estimation and 50% for prediction. Prediction accuracy was assessed by mean squared errors (MSEs) and mean absolute errors (MAEs).Mean (standard deviation) sleep duration for respondents (N = 2,842) was 7.8 (1.9) hours, and mean ISI score was 14.1 (4.8). Mean predicted EQ-5D utility was 0.765 (0.08) from Models I-III, which overlapped with observed utilities 0.765 (0.18). Predicted utility using insomnia symptoms was higher (0.771(0.07)). Based on Model I, predicted utilities increased linearly with improving ISI (0.493 if ISI = 28 vs. 1.00 if ISI = 0, p < 0.01). From Model II, each unit decrease in ISI summary score was associated with a 0.022 (p < 0.001) increase in utility. Predicted utilities were 0.868, 0.809, 0.722, and 0.579, respectively, for the 4 clinical categories, suggesting that lower utility was related to greater insomnia severity. The symptom model (Model IV) indicated a concave sleep-duration function of the EQ-5D; thus, utilities diminished after an optimal amount of sleep. The MSEs/MAEs were substantially lower when predicting EQ-5D > 0.40, and results were comparable in all models.Findings suggest that mapping relationships between the EQ-5D and insomnia measures could be established. These relationships may be used to estimate insomnia-related treatment effects on health state utilities.We studied 7,897 women with postmenopausal osteoporosis to assess factors that influence health-related quality of life (HRQoL). An increased number of comorbidities, fear of falling, and previous vertebral fracture were associated with significant reductions in HRQoL. Understanding the factors that affect HRQoL may improve management of these patients.HRQoL is impaired in women treated for postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO). The objective of this study was to examine the relationship between clinical characteristics, comorbidities, medical history, patient demographics, and HRQoL in women with PMO.Baseline data were obtained and combined from two large and similar multinational observational studies: Prospective Observational Scientific Study Investigating Bone Loss Experience in Europe (POSSIBLE EU®) and in the US (POSSIBLE US™) including postmenopausal women in primary care settings initiating or switching bone loss treatment, or who had been on bone loss treatment for some time. HRQoL measured by health utility scores (EQ-5D™) were available for 7,897 women (94 % of study participants). The relationship between HRQoL and baseline clinical characteristics, medical history and patient demographics was assessed using parsimonious, multivariable, mixed-model analyses.Median health utility score was 0.80 (interquartile range 0.69-1.00). In multivariable analyses, young age, low body mass index, previous vertebral fracture, increased number of comorbidities, high fear of falling, and depression were associated with reduced HRQoL. Regression-based model estimates showed that previous vertebral fracture was associated with lower health utility scores by 0.08 (10.3 %) and demonstrated the impact of multiple comorbidities and of fear of falling on HRQoL.In this large observational study of women with PMO, there was substantial interindividual variability in HRQoL. An increased number of comorbidities, fear of falling, and previous vertebral fracture were associated with significant reductions in HRQoL.The English Department of Health has introduced routine collection of patient-reported outcome data for selected surgical procedures to facilitate patient choice and increase hospital accountability. However, using aggregate health outcome scores, such as EQ-5D utilities, for performance assessment purposes causes information loss and raises statistical and normative concerns.. For hip replacement surgery, we explore a) the change in patient-reported outcomes between baseline and follow-up on 5 health dimensions (EQ-5D), b) the extent to which treatment impact varies across hospitals, and c) the extent to which hospital performance on EQ-5D dimensions is correlated with performance on the EQ-5D utility index.. We combine information on pre- and postoperative EQ-5D outcomes with routine inpatient data for the financial year 2009-2010. The sample consists of 21,000 patients in 153 hospitals. We employ hierarchical ordered probit risk-adjustment models that recognize the multilevel nature of the data and the response distributions. The treatment impact is modeled as a random coefficient that varies at the hospital level. We obtain hospital-specific empirical Bayes (EB) estimates of this coefficient. We estimate separate models for each EQ-5D dimension and the EQ-5D utility index and analyze correlations of EB estimates across these.. Hospital treatment is associated with improvements in all EQ-5D dimensions. Variability in treatment impact is most pronounced on the mobility and usual activities dimensions. Conversely, only pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression correlate well with performance measures based on utilities. This leads to different assessments of hospital performance across metrics.. Our results indicate which hospitals are better than others in improving health across particular EQ-5D dimensions. We demonstrate the importance of evaluating dimensions of the EQ-5D separately for the purposes of hospital performance assessment.Among injury victims relatively high prevalence rates of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) have been found. PTSD is associated with functional impairments and decreased health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Previous studies that addressed the latter were restricted to injuries at the higher end of the severity spectrum. This study examined the association between PTSD symptoms and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in a comprehensive population of injury patients of all severity levels and external causes.We conducted a self-assessment survey which included items regarding demographics of the patient, accident type, sustained injuries, EuroQol health classification system (EQ-5D) and Health Utilities Index (HUI) to measure functional outcome and HRQoL, and the Impact of Event Scale (IES) to measure PTSD symptoms. An IES-score of 35 or higher was used as indication for the presence of PTSD. The survey was completed by 1,781 injury patients two years after they were treated at the Emergency Department (ED), followed by either hospital admission or direct discharge to the home environment.Symptoms indicative of PTSD were associated with more problems on all EQ-5D and HUI3 domains of functional outcome and a considerable utility loss in both hospitalized (0.23-0.24) and non-hospitalized (0.32-0.33) patients. Differences in reported problems between patients with IES scores higher or lower than 35 were largest for EQ-5D health domains pain/discomfort (82% versus 28%) and anxiety/depression (53% versus 11%) and HUI domains emotion (92% versus 33%) and pain (84% versus 38%). After adjusting for potential confounders, PTSD remained strongly associated with adverse HRQoL.Among patients treated at an ED posttraumatic stress symptoms indicative of PTSD were associated with a considerable decrease in HRQoL in both hospitalized and non-hospitalized patients. PTSD symptoms may therefore raise a major barrier for full recovery of injury patients of even minor levels of severity.Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive lung disease with pulmonary vasculopathy.The purpose of this study was to determine whether sildenafil improves 6-min walk distance (6MWD) in subjects with IPF and right ventricular dysfunction.The IPFnet, a network of IPF research centers in the United States, conducted a randomized trial examining the effect of sildenafil on 6MWD in patients with advanced IPF, defined by carbon monoxide diffusing capacity &lt; 35% predicted. A substudy examined 119 of 180 randomized subjects where echocardiograms were available for independent review by two cardiologists. Right ventricular (RV) hypertrophy (RVH), right ventricular systolic dysfunction (RVSD), and right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP) were assessed. Multivariable linear regression models estimated the relationship between RV abnormality, sildenafil treatment, and changes in 6MWD, St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), the EuroQol instrument, and SF-36 Health Survey (SF-36) from enrollment to 12 weeks.The prevalence of RVH and RVSD were 12.8% and 18.6%, respectively. RVSP was measurable in 71 of 119 (60%) subjects; mean RVSP was 42.5 mm Hg. In the subgroup of subjects with RVSD, subjects treated with sildenafil experienced less decrement in 6MWD (99.3 m; P = .01) and greater improvement in SGRQ (13.4 points; P = .005) and EuroQol visual analog scores (17.9 points; P = .04) than subjects receiving placebo. In the subgroup with RVH, sildenafil was not associated with change in 6MWD (P = .13), but was associated with greater relative improvement in SGRQ (14.8 points; P = .02) vs subjects receiving placebo. Sildenafil treatment in those with RVSD and RVH was not associated with change in SF-36.Sildenafil treatment in IPF with RVSD results in better preservation of exercise capacity as compared with placebo. Sildenafil also improves quality of life in subjects with RVH and RVSD.Fractures of the proximal humerus are common injuries. The management, including surgical intervention, of these fractures varies widely. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2001 and last updated in 2010.To review the evidence supporting the various treatment and rehabilitation interventions for proximal humeral fractures.We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE and other databases, and bibliographies of trial reports. The full search ended in January 2012.All randomised controlled trials pertinent to the management of proximal humeral fractures in adults were selected.Two people performed independent study selection, risk of bias assessment and data extraction. Only limited meta-analysis was performed.Twenty-three small randomised trials with a total of 1238 participants were included. Bias in these trials could not be ruled out. Additionally there is a need for caution in interpreting the results of these small trials, which generally do not provide sufficient evidence to conclude that any non-statistically significant finding is 'evidence of no effect'.Eight trials evaluated conservative treatment. One trial found an arm sling was generally more comfortable than a less commonly used body bandage. There was some evidence that 'immediate' physiotherapy compared with that delayed until after three weeks of immobilisation resulted in less pain and potentially better recovery in people with undisplaced or other stable fractures. Similarly, there was evidence that mobilisation at one week instead of three weeks alleviated short term pain without compromising long term outcome. Two trials provided some evidence that unsupervised patients could generally achieve a satisfactory outcome when given sufficient instruction for an adequate self-directed exercise programme.Six heterogeneous trials, involving a total of 270 participants with displaced and/or complex fractures, compared surgical versus conservative treatment. Pooled results of patient-reported functional scores at one year from three trials (153 participants) showed no statistically significant difference between the two groups (standardised mean difference -0.10, 95% CI -0.42 to 0.22; negative results favour surgery). Quality of life based on the EuroQol results scores from three trials (153 participants) showed non-statistically significant differences between the two groups at three time points up to 12 months. However, the pooled EuroQol results at two years (101 participants) from two trials run concurrently from the same centre were significantly in favour of the surgical group. There was no significant difference between the two groups in mortality (8/98 versus 5/98; RR 1.55, 95% CI 0.55 to 4.36; 4 trials). Significantly more surgical group patients had additional or secondary surgery (18/112 versus 5/111; RR 3.36, 95% CI 1.33 to 8.49; 5 trials). This is equivalent to an extra operation in one of every nine surgically treated patients.Different methods of surgical management were tested in seven small trials. One trial comparing two types of locking plate versus a locking nail for treating two-part surgical neck fractures found some evidence of better function after plate fixation but also of a higher rate of surgically-related complications. One trial comparing a locking plate versus minimally invasive fixation with distally inserted intramedullary nails found some evidence of a short-term benefit for the nailing group. Compared with hemiarthroplasty, tension-band fixation of severe injuries using wires was associated with a higher re-operation rate in one trial. Two trials found no important differences between 'polyaxial' and 'monaxial' screws combined with locking plate fixation. One trial produced some preliminary evidence that tended to support the use of medial support locking screws in locking plate fixation. One trial found better functional results for one of two types of hemiarthroplasty.Very limited evidence suggested similar outcomes from early versus later mobilisation after either surgical fixation (one trial) or hemiarthroplasty (one trial).There is insufficient evidence to inform the management of these fractures. Early physiotherapy, without immobilisation, may be sufficient for some types of undisplaced fractures. It remains unclear whether surgery, even for specific fracture types, will produce consistently better long term outcomes but it is likely to be associated with a higher risk of surgery-related complications and requirement for further surgery.There is insufficient evidence to establish what is the best method of surgical treatment, either in terms of the use of different categories of surgical intervention (such as plate versus nail fixation, or hemiarthroplasty versus tension-wire fixation) or different methods of performing an intervention in the same category (such as different methods of plate fixation). There is insufficient evidence to say when to start mobilisation after either surgical fixation or hemiarthroplasty.Stroke causes complex disability and function, and perceived quality of life has been shown to correlate with satisfaction with care as well as with life in general among stroke patients. The aim of this study was to study the relation of satisfaction with how rehabilitation was provided with self-perceived quality of life, self-perceived function and rehabilitation received, 12 months after the incidence.The subjects were assessed 12 months after the onset of stroke. The Barthel index was used to measure function, and the EuroQol-5D to measure quality of life. To measure satisfaction with how rehabilitation was provided, a questionnaire from the Swedish Stroke Register was used.Two hundred and eighty-three patients participated in the follow-up, 137 women and 146 men, aged between 42 and 95 years (mean age 75.2, SD 11.8). For the majority of patients rehabilitation was initiated at in-hospital care (directly after onset). One hundred and sixty-eight patients considered that rehabilitation was well provided for. Sixty-six regarded that the rehabilitation was only partly provided for and 35 that it was not provided for at all. High value on Barthel Index was associated with satisfaction with how rehabilitation was provided for (OR 2.81). Also, rehabilitation on three or more levels was negatively associated with satisfaction with rehabilitation provision (OR 0.24) and so was being male (OR 0.49).In this study, patients with higher values on Barthel Index were more satisfied with how rehabilitation was provided for. However, male patients and patients who received rehabilitation on three or more levels of care were less satisfied. Given the assumption that patients with more severe dysfunction after stroke are being rehabilitated on more levels, this might imply that it is not the amount of rehabilitation that gives satisfaction but the patients self-perceived function after rehabilitation.To investigate whether a simple alternative (specific timely appointments for triage [STAT]) to the more common approach of managing demand using a waitlist with a triage system could reduce waiting time for a community rehabilitation program (CRP) without adverse impacts on patient care.A prospective, controlled before-and-after trial. Preintervention and postintervention data were collected for 6 months in 2 consecutive years. STAT was introduced at an intervention site and compared with a control site using a triaged waitlist.Two musculoskeletal CRP teams within a large metropolitan health service.All patients referred to both sites during periods preintervention (n=483) and postintervention (n=488).Under STAT, clinicians created a specified number of assessment times each week based on average referral numbers, and patients were immediately allocated an appointment on referral.The primary outcome was the time from referral to first appointment; secondary outcomes included program duration, quality-of-life scores (using the EuroQol EQ-5D), and unplanned hospital admissions.Waiting time decreased from a mean of 17.5 days to 10.0 days (P<.01) at the intervention site, with no significant change at the control site. Intervention site patients were over 3 times more likely to be seen within 7 days than control site patients (odds ratio, 3.3; 95% confidence interval, 2.2-4.9). Secondary outcomes did not differ significantly between groups.A simple alternative to using a triaged waitlist to manage CRP referrals reduced waiting time without adversely affecting care. Results were sustained over 6 months with no additional resources.The burden of disease in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) patients is unclear. This study focused on the patient's perspective to obtain patient-reported information on clinical symptoms, burden of illness, impact of LEMS on activities of daily living (ADL), and management of LEMS.Semi-structured, face-to-face interviews with LEMS patients from two specialized centres in Germany between September and December 2010.Twelve patients participated; mean age 66.7 ± 9.8 years. First symptoms occurred at age 52.5 ± 14.0 years. Mean time between first symptoms and diagnosis was 4.4 ± 6.2 years. Patients reported neuromuscular, cranial, and autonomic symptoms plus general fatigue. Two-thirds of patients reported 10 or more symptoms. The most frequent symptoms were leg weakness (91.7%) and general fatigue (83.3%). Restrictions in ADL were reported always or often in 75% of patients. Over half of the patients (n = 7) reported poor or very poor health status. Mean EQ-5D utility scores were 0.34 ± 0.35, with little day-to-day variation. Patients visited a number of different clinicians; most had been hospitalized at some point in the course of their disease. The most frequent drug treatments were 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP) (83.3%) and pyridostigmine (41.5%). The study has several limitations, including small sample size and the potential influence of recall bias.LEMS patients report long individual disease histories. Most patients suffer multiple symptoms which are frequently severe and troublesome, and almost all are restricted in ADL with poor health status. There is high utilization of healthcare resources from diagnosis to ongoing treatment. Physicians should be aware of this rare disease to ensure that patients receive an early diagnosis and prompt and appropriate treatment.To validate risk prediction models for acute traumatic brain injury (TBI) and to use the best model to evaluate the optimum location and comparative costs of neurocritical care in the NHS.Cohort study.Sixty-seven adult critical care units.Adult patients admitted to critical care following actual/suspected TBI with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of < 15.Critical care delivered in a dedicated neurocritical care unit, a combined neuro/general critical care unit within a neuroscience centre or a general critical care unit outside a neuroscience centre.Mortality, Glasgow Outcome Scale - Extended (GOSE) questionnaire and European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions, 3-level version (EQ-5D-3L) questionnaire at 6 months following TBI.The final Risk Adjustment In Neurocritical care (RAIN) study data set contained 3626 admissions. After exclusions, 3210 patients with acute TBI were included. Overall follow-up rate at 6 months was 81%. Of 3210 patients, 101 (3.1%) had no GCS score recorded and 134 (4.2%) had a last pre-sedation GCS score of 15, resulting in 2975 patients for analysis. The most common causes of TBI were road traffic accidents (RTAs) (33%), falls (47%) and assault (12%). Patients were predominantly young (mean age 45 years overall) and male (76% overall). Six-month mortality was 22% for RTAs, 32% for falls and 17% for assault. Of survivors at 6 months with a known GOSE category, 44% had severe disability, 30% moderate disability and 26% made a good recovery. Overall, 61% of patients with known outcome had an unfavourable outcome (death or severe disability) at 6 months. Between 35% and 70% of survivors reported problems across the five domains of the EQ-5D-3L. Of the 10 risk models selected for validation, the best discrimination overall was from the International Mission for Prognosis and Analysis of Clinical Trials in TBI Lab model (IMPACT) (c-index 0.779 for mortality, 0.713 for unfavourable outcome). The model was well calibrated for 6-month mortality but substantially underpredicted the risk of unfavourable outcome at 6 months. Baseline patient characteristics were similar between dedicated neurocritical care units and combined neuro/general critical care units. In lifetime cost-effectiveness analysis, dedicated neurocritical care units had higher mean lifetime quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) at small additional mean costs with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £14,000 per QALY and incremental net monetary benefit (INB) of £17,000. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve suggested that the probability that dedicated compared with combined neurocritical care units are cost-effective is around 60%. There were substantial differences in case mix between the 'early' (within 18 hours of presentation) and 'no or late' (after 24 hours) transfer groups. After adjustment, the 'early' transfer group reported higher lifetime QALYs at an additional cost with an ICER of £11,000 and INB of £17,000.The risk models demonstrated sufficient statistical performance to support their use in research but fell below the level required to guide individual patient decision-making. The results suggest that management in a dedicated neurocritical care unit may be cost-effective compared with a combined neuro/general critical care unit (although there is considerable statistical uncertainty) and support current recommendations that all patients with severe TBI would benefit from transfer to a neurosciences centre, regardless of the need for surgery. We recommend further research to improve risk prediction models; consider alternative approaches for handling unobserved confounding; better understand long-term outcomes and alternative pathways of care; and explore equity of access to postcritical care support for patients following acute TBI.The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.We assessed the feasibility of using a photographic foot imaging device (PFID) as a tele-monitoring tool in the home environment of patients with diabetes who were at high risk of ulceration. Images of the plantar foot were taken three times a week over a period of four months in the home of 22 high-risk patients. The images were remotely assessed by a diabetic foot specialist. At the end of the study, 12% of images were missing, mainly due to modem or server failures (66%), or non-adherence (11%). All three referrals for diagnosed ulcers and 31 of 32 referrals for abundant callus resulted in treatment. Health-related quality of life (EQ-5D visual analogue scale), increased from 7.5 at baseline to 7.9 at end of follow-up, but not significantly. Mean scores on a visual analogue scale for different usability domains (independence, ease of use, technical aspects and value) ranged from seven to nine. The study demonstrates the feasibility of using the PFID for the early diagnosis of foot disease, which may prevent complications in high-risk patients with diabetes.To compare the outcome of internal fixation (IF) versus a cemented hemiarthroplasty (HA) in patients with a displaced femoral neck fracture and a severe cognitive dysfunction.A prospective randomized controlled trial.A tertiary care university hospital.Sixty patients with a displaced femoral neck fracture were randomized to IF (n = 30) or HA (n = 30). All patients suffered from severe cognitive dysfunction but were able to walk before the fracture.IF using 2 cannulated screws or HA using a cemented Exeter unipolar arthroplasty.Patients were reviewed at 4, 12, and 24 months after the fracture. Outcome assessments included complications, reoperations, hip function (Charnley score), and health-related quality of life (EQ-5Dindex score).A total of 8 patients were reoperated (14%); 7 in the IF group and 1 in the HA group. The EQ-5Dindex score at the follow-ups were generally lower in the IF group compared with the HA group with a significant difference at 12 months (P = 0.03). No difference was seen in hip function, general complications, or mortality between the groups.HA seems to provide a safe option with better health-related quality of life and less risk for reoperations compared with IF for these patients.Therapeutic level II.Patient-reported outcomes are important for clinical practice and research, and should reflect what patients perceive as important. The objective of this study was to develop and preliminarily validate a brief, patient-derived, disease-specific tool, the pancreatic cancer disease impact (PACADI) score.The development was performed in two phases. Forty-one patients with confirmed pancreatic cancer (PC) selected dimensions of health related to the impact of the disease. A weighting of the eight most frequently reported dimensions was performed in a second sample of 80 PC patients who also rated the impact on eight numeric rating scales (NRS, range 0 to 10). The relative weights and the scores from the NRS were used to compute the PACADI score (range 0 to 10). The patients also completed Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) and EQ-5D.Dimensions reported by more than 20% of the patients were included in the PACADI score (relative weights in parenthesis): pain/discomfort (0.16), fatigue (0.16), anxiety (0.15), bowel/digestive problems (0.14), loss of appetite (0.13), dry mouth (0.11), itchiness (0.08), and nausea (0.07). The PACADI score in the 80 PC patients had a mean (SD) value of 3.26 (2.06) (95% CI 2.80, 3.71), was moderately to strongly correlated to ESAS sense of well-being (r = 0.69) and EQ-5D (r = -0.52), and discriminated significantly between patients with and without PC.The PACADI score is a new eight-item, patient-derived, disease-specific measure. Preliminary validation regarding construct validity and discrimination encourages further validation in independent patient samples.To estimate quality-adjusted life-year weights for patients with diabetic retinopathy by using various methods and to investigate the empirical validity of the different measures.The study population comprised 152 patients with diabetes in Östergötland County, Sweden. Participants were interviewed by telephone by using the time trade-off (TTO) method and a visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) (direct valuations) as well as the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D) and the health utilities index mark 3 (HUI-3) (indirect valuations). The quality-adjusted life-year weights were adjusted for potential confounders by using analysis of covariance. The empirical validity of the measures was examined by testing their ability to detect hypothetical differences between severity levels of diabetic retinopathy and by investigating the correlation between the measures and the 25-item National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25).All measures detected significant differences in scores between patient groups classified according to visual impairment in the better eye (analysis of covariance, P < 0.05), but only HUI-3 and EQ-VAS detected significant differences between patient groups classified according to visual impairment or pathological progression in the worse eye. HUI-3 recorded a difference of 0.43 in values between normal vision and blindness in the better eye, which was more than twice the differences captured by the other measures (0.15-0.20). In addition, HUI-3 showed the highest correlation with NEI VFQ-25 (r = 0.54; P < 0.001).In cost-utility analyses, the choice of quality-adjusted life-year measure may affect whether an intervention is considered cost-effective. Furthermore, if decisions are to be based on values from the general public, HUI-3 can be recommended for cost-utility analyses of interventions directed at diabetic retinopathy.To perform a pilot study assessing possible efficacy, safety, and optimal dosage of pramipexole in essential tremor.Twenty-nine patients with essential tremor were enrolled into this 16-week-long study. After recording baseline condition, 2 different dosages of immediate-release formulation of pramipexole were evaluated (1.05 mg/d and 2.1 mg/d in 3 identical dosages). Subsequently, immediate- and extended-release formulations were compared. The Fahn-Tolosa-Marin Tremor Rating Scale, Activities of Daily Living, the EuroQol instrument for detecting health-related outcome, and Clinical Global Impression of Improvement Scale were obtained. After completing the study, a rater blinded to the treatment reassessed the tremor rating scales based on video recordings.Twenty-four patients (82.6%) completed the study. Causes for discontinuation were adverse effects of pramipexole: intolerable nausea (n = 3), daytime sleepiness (n = 1), and anxiety (n = 1). Twenty-one patients had a score of less than 3 on the Clinical Global Impression of Improvement Scale (treatment responders, 72.4%). All the major outcome values demonstrated significant improvement. The severity of tremor was reduced by 52.0% (43.7 vs 20.8 points, Fahn-Tolosa-Marin Tremor Rating Scale), and the EuroQol instrument for detecting health-related outcome score improved from 0.69 to 0.91 (P < 0.01). The dose of 2.1 mg was more effective than that of 1.05 mg; however, both the immediate- and extended-release formulations were equally efficacious. After completion of the study, 15 patients (51.7% of the enrolled patients) wanted to remain on pramipexole treatment.This pilot study suggests that pramipexole may be effective in the treatment of essential tremor. However, further controlled studies are required.Surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is today the most frequently performed procedure in the adult lumbar spine. Long-term benefit of surgery for LSS is well documented both in randomized and in non-randomized trials. In this paper, we present the results from laminarthrectomy as an alternative surgical approach, which have theoretical advantages over other approaches. In this study, we wanted to study the clinical and radiological results of laminarthrectomy. Dural sac cross-sectional areal (DSCSA) is an objective method to quantify the degree of central stenosis in the spinal canal, and was used to measure whether we were able to achieve an adequate decompression of the spinal canal with laminarthrectomy as a surgical approach.All patients operated on with this approach consecutively in the period 1 January 2008 to 31 March 2009 were included in the study. All perioperative complications were noted. Clinical results were measured by means of a questionnaire. The patients that agreed to attend the study had an MRI taken of the operated level. DSCSA before and after surgery of the actual level were measured by three observers. We then performed a correlation test between increase of area and clinical results. We also tested for inter- and intra-observer reability.Fifty-six laminarthrectomy were performed. There were 17% complications, none of them were life-threatening or disabling. 46 patients attended the study and answered the questionnaire. Thirty-four patients (83%) reported clinical improvement, whereas six (13%) patients reported no improvement, and two (4%) patients reported that they were worse. Mean ODI was 23.0. Mean EQ-5D was 0.77. Mean VAS-score for back-pain was 3.1 and mean VAS-score for leg-pain was 2.8. Mean DSCSA were measured to 80 mm(2) before surgery and 161 mm(2) after surgery. That gave an increase of DSCSA of 81 mm(2) (101%). We found a significant positive correlation between increase of area and clinical results. We also found consistent inter- and intra-observer reability.In this study, the clinical results of laminarthrectomy were good, and comparable with other reports for LSS. The rates of complications are also comparable with other reports in spinal surgery. A significant increase in the spinal canal diameter was achieved. Within the limitations a retrospective study gives, we conclude that laminarthrectomy seems to be a safe and effective surgical approach for significant decompressing the adult central spinal canal, and measurement of DSCSA, before and after surgery seems to be a good way to quantify the degree of decompression.This study aims to provide robust estimates of EQ-5D as a function of the HAQ and pain in patients with RA.Repeated observations were made of patients diagnosed with RA in a US observational cohort (n = 100 398 observations) who provided data on HAQ, pain on a visual analogue scale and the EQ-5D questionnaire. We used a bespoke statistical method based on mixture modelling to appropriately reflect the characteristics of the EQ-5D instrument and to compare this with results from standard multiple regression.EQ-5D can be predicted from summary HAQ and pain scores. We identify four different classes of respondents who differ in terms of disease severity. Unlike the multiple regression, the mixture model exhibits very good fit to the data and does not suffer from problems of bias or predict values outside the feasible range.It is appropriate to model the relationship between HAQ and EQ-5D but only if suitable statistical methods are applied. Linear models underestimate the quality-adjusted life year benefits, and therefore the cost-effectiveness, of therapies. The bespoke mixture model approach outlined here overcomes this problem. The addition of pain as an explanatory variable greatly improves the estimates. Reimbursement agencies rely on these types of analyses when formulating policy on the use of new drug therapies. Clinicians as well as economists should be concerned with these issues.Following intensive care discharge, many patients suffer severe physical and psychological morbidity and a continuing high use of health services. Follow-up programmes have been proposed to improve the outcomes for these patients. We tested the hypothesis that nurse-led intensive care follow-up programmes are cost-effective.A pragmatic, multicentre, randomised controlled trial of nurse-led intensive care unit follow-up programmes versus standard care. A cost-utility analysis was conducted after 12 months' follow-up to compare the two interventions. Costs were assessed from the perspective of the UK NHS and outcomes were measured in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) based upon responses to the EQ-5D administered at baseline, 6 and 12 months.A total of 286 patients were recruited to the trial. Total mean cost was £ 5,789 for standard care and £ 7,577 for the discharge clinic. The adjusted difference in means was £ 2,435 [95 % confidence interval (CI) -297 to 5,566]. Mean QALYs were 0.58 for standard care and 0.60 for the discharge clinic. The adjusted mean difference was -0.003 (95 % CI -0.066 to 0.060). If society were willing to pay £ 20,000 per QALY then there would be a 93 % chance that standard care would be considered most efficient.A nurse-led intensive care unit (ICU) follow-up programme showed no evidence of being cost-effective at 12 months. Further work should focus on evidence-based development of discharge clinic services and current ICU follow-up programmes should review their practice in light of these results.Few studies have investigated the role of hybrid surgery (HS) that incorporates anterior cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) and artificial disc replacement (ADR) techniques. To our knowledge, this is the first study that provides a direct comparison of all three groups in terms of intra-operative parameters and outcomes with a minimum follow-up of 2 years.Seven consecutive patients who underwent HS were matched with another seven patients who underwent ACDF and ADR based on levels of surgery. Prospective data on demographics, pre-operative and post-operative assessments, complications and functional scores (VAS, NDI, EQ-5D health score and index) were analysed using Mann-Whitney U test. Type I error was set at 5 %.Duration of surgery was significantly shorter for ACDF at 135 min (p = 0.025) compared with HS and ADR. ACDF also had greater blood loss when compared with ADR (p < 0.036). ADR has the shortest duration of hospitalization followed by HS and ACDF (p < 0.031). The HS group returned to work fastest (54 days) when compared with both ACDF (107 days) and ADR (73 days) with statistical significance seen between HS and ACDF (p = 0.035). Cervical range of motion (ROM) and functional scores did not show any significant differences.HS is comparable to ACDF and ADR in terms of safety and feasibility. Findings of shorter in-hospital stay and earlier return to work in HS group may be further explored in large, randomised controlled trials.As part of the national initiative to reduce waiting times for joint replacement surgery in Wales, the Cardiff and Vale NHS Trust referred 224 patients to the NHS Treatment Centre in Weston-Super-Mare for total knee replacement (TKR). A total of 258 Kinemax TKRs were performed between November 2004 and August 2006. Of these, a total of 199 patients (232 TKRs, 90%) have been followed up for five years. This cohort was compared with 258 consecutive TKRs in 250 patients, performed at Cardiff and Vale Orthopaedic Centre (CAVOC) over a similar time period. The five year cumulative survival rate was 80.6% (95% confidence interval (CI) 74.0 to 86.0) in the Weston-Super-Mare cohort and 95.0% (95% CI 90.2 to 98.2) in the CAVOC cohort with revision for any reason as the endpoint. The relative risk for revision at Weston-Super-Mare compared with CAVOC was 3.88 (p < 0.001). For implants surviving five years, the mean Oxford knee scores (OKS) and mean EuroQol (EQ-5D) scores were similar (OKS: Weston-Super-Mare 29 (2 to 47) vs CAVOC 29.8 (3 to 48), p = 0.61; EQ-5D: Weston-Super-Mare 0.53 (-0.38 to 1.00) vs CAVOC 0.55 (-0.32 to 1.00), p = 0.79). Patients with revised TKRs had significantly lower Oxford knee and EQ-5D scores (p < 0.001). The results show a higher revision rate for patients operated at Weston-Super-Mare Treatment Centre, with a reduction in functional outcome and quality of life after revision. This further confirms that patients moved from one area to another for joint replacement surgery fare poorly.Autologous osteochondral mosaicplasty and TruFit Bone graft substitute plugs are methods used to repair symptomatic articular cartilage defects in the adult knee. There have been no comparative studies of the two techniques.This retrospective study assessed functional outcome of patients using the EQ-5D, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) and Modified Cincinnati scores at follow-up of 1-5 years.There were 66 patients in the study (35 TruFit and 31 Mosaicplasty): 44 males and 22 females with a mean age of 37.3 years (SD 12.6). The mean BMI was 26.8. Thirty-six articular cartilage lesions were due to trauma, twenty-six due to osteochondritis dissecans and three due to non-specific degenerative change or unknown. There was no difference between the two groups age (n.s.), sex (n.s.), BMI (n.s.), defect location (n.s.) or aetiology (n.s.). The median follow-up was 22 months for the TruFit cohort and 30 months for the mosaicplasty group. There was no significant difference in the requirement for re-operation (n.s). Patients undergoing autologous mosaicplasty had a higher rate of returning to sport (p = 0.006), lower EQ-5D pain scores (p = 0.048) and higher KOOS activities of daily living (p = 0.029) scores. Sub-group analysis showed no difference related to the number of cases the surgeon performed. Patients requiring re-operation had lower outcome scores regardless of their initial procedure.This study demonstrated significantly better outcomes using two validated outcome scores (KOOS, EQ-5D), and an ability to return to sport in those undergoing autologous mosaicplasty compared to those receiving TruFit plugs.IV.Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal, neurodegenerative disease for which there is no known cure. Proxy evaluation is relevant for HD as its manifestation might limit the ability of persons to report their health-related quality of life (HrQoL). This study explored patient-proxy ratings of HrQoL of persons at different stages of HD, and examined factors that may affect proxy ratings. A total of 105 patient-proxy pairs completed the Huntington's disease health-related quality of life questionnaire (HDQoL) and other established HrQoL measures (EQ-5D and SF-12v2). Proxy-patient agreement was assessed in terms of absolute level (mean ratings) and intraclass correlation. Proxies' ratings were at a similar level to patients' self-ratings on an overall Summary Score and on most of the six Specific Scales of the HDQoL. On the Specific Hopes and Worries Scale, proxies on average rated HrQoL as better than patients' self-ratings, while on both the Specific Cognitive Scale and Specific Physical and Functional Scale proxies tended to rate HrQoL more poorly than patients themselves. The patient's disease stage and mental wellbeing (SF-12 Mental Component scale) were the two factors that primarily affected proxy assessment. Proxy scores were strongly correlated with patients' self-ratings of HrQoL, on the Summary Scale and all Specific Scales. The patient-proxy correlation was lower for patients at moderate stages of HD compared to patients at early and advanced stages. The proxy report version of the HDQoL is a useful complementary tool to self-assessment, and a promising alternative when individual patients with advanced HD are unable to self-report.The aim of this study was to evaluate the health-related quality-of-life (HRQL) impact of using the Vitala continence control device (CCD) in addition to the traditional pouch system among patients with an end colostomy.End colostomy patients aged 18 years or older from the Czech Republic, Netherlands, and UK who were using at least 15 Vitala CCDs per month for at least 3 months and those using only pouches were surveyed over the Internet when possible or alternatively using a local personal computer arranged by a professional recruiter. The survey included the EQ-5D, Stoma Quality of Life Scale, Stoma Appliance-specific Questionnaire (SAQ), in addition to demographics and medical history. Univariate and regression analyses were performed to compare the HRQL between the patient groups.A total of 165 patients completed the survey: 103 (62.4%) from the Czech Republic, 11 (6.7%) from the Netherlands, and 51 (30.9%) from the UK. Of these, 70 (42%) were Vitala CCD users. The mean age (±SD) was 62.5 (±10.9) years and 61.2% of the patients were men. Patients using the Vitala CCD on average had significantly higher scores on EQ-5D utility (0.84±0.20 vs. 0.75±0.25, P=0.013), EQ Visual Analog Scale (77.0±17.06 vs. 71.2±18.49, P=0.043), and SAQ (27.1±4.21 vs. 24.9±4.29, P=0.001). The Stoma Quality of Life Scale scores did not differ significantly between the groups. A higher proportion of Vitala CCD users had 'no problems' on all five EQ-5D domains (44.3 vs. 25.3%, P=0.010). A higher proportion of Vitala CCD users' scores were at or above the mean score of patients indicating 'enjoyed life' 'most of the time', for both the EQ-5D (64.3 vs. 48.4%, P=0.043) and the EQ Visual Analog Scale (67.1 vs. 51.6%, P=0.045).Findings from this study demonstrate that patients using the Vitala CCD appear to have better HRQL compared with those using only pouches. The difference might be meaningful to the patients, as reflected in the generic EQ-5D and the device-specific SAQ measures.The objective of this study was the assessment of the efficiency of the MiniArc for curing stress urinary incontinence.Seventy-seven patients, operated on from March 2008 to November 2009, were evaluated in this study. One-year post-operative data are presented. All patients suffered from predominant stress urinary incontinence. After 1 year, response was 74%. Evaluation was performed using a questionnaire consisting of the EuroQol-5 Dimensions, the Patient Global Impression of Improvement, the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire, the Urinary Distress Inventory, the Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire, short form, and the Defecation Distress Inventory.One year after surgery, 68% of the patients stated an improvement in their incontinence status, while only 44% stated to be completely dry.The 1-year follow-up suggests that the MiniArc is less effective in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence than the TVT.The maximal instantaneous anaerobic power (w), as determined during a high jump off both feet on a force platform, was measured on eight subjects starting from a resting base line; a base line of steady-state cycloergometric exercise requiring 30, 50, and 70% of individual maximum O2 consumption (VO2max); and a base line of maximal and supramaximal exercise (100 and 120% of VO2max). In addition, w was also measured during the VO2 transients from rest to each of the above work loads. Blood lactate concentration ([Lab]) was determined before and 8 min after the end of each priming load. After the onset of any priming load, w decreases with time reaching in 2 min a steady level that is lower the higher the VO2. For the three lowest work rates, the steady w level is unchanged by increasing the duration of the priming exercise up to 30 min. For low work levels, the decrease of w as a function of VO2 is essentially parallel to that of estimated muscle concentration of ATP ([ATP]). For work levels greater than 60% of VO2max involving a substantial accumulation of lactate, the decrease of w becomes smaller than the estimated drop of muscle [ATP]. This finding is tentatively attributed to an increase of either the mechanical equivalent or of the velocity constant of ATP splitting brought about by the lowering of intracellular muscle pH after lactate accumulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)Data from literature on predictors for patients' quality of life after pelvic ring fractures are conflicting and based on small study populations.We therefore evaluated predictors for health-related quality of life in patients with pelvic ring injuries at a minimum of 1 year postfracture.We surveyed 172 patients of the German Pelvic Trauma Registry admitted to four medical centers between February 3, 2004, and May 11, 2011. The median age of the followup cohort was 47 years (range, 8-88 years); 69 of 172 (40%) patients were female. Patients were characterized by a median Injury Severity Score of 17. There were 31 Tile Type A fractures (18%), 77 Type B fractures (45%), and 64 Type C fractures (37%). The incidence of complex fractures and multiple traumas was 34 of 172 (20%) and 116 of 172 (67%), respectively. One hundred twenty-five (73%) patients were treated operatively. We obtained the EQ-5D™ score to assess patients' health-related quality of life. For the analysis of predictors for quality of life, a multivariate linear regression model was built. The median followup was 3 years (range, 1-6 years).The median EQ-5D™ score was 0.78 (interquartile limits, 0.63 and 1.00). Age, complex trauma, and surgery independently predicted the EQ-5D™ score.We conclude patients with higher age, complex trauma, and surgery had a higher likelihood for a reduced quality of life after pelvic ring injuries.Prescription drugs have made great contributions to health and quality of life (QOL). However, inappropriate use of drugs may result in just the opposite effect. Older adults often take multiple medications simultaneously and thus are more vulnerable to inappropriate drug use. Knowledge of important aspects of medication use might reduce the risk of inappropriate utilization and improve QOL.To determine the extent of patient knowledge concerning patient-centered contents of medication labels (PCCMLs) and whether level of patient knowledge is associated with health outcomes.A survey was administered to members of 6 senior centers in Memphis, TN, USA. Surveys from older adults (65 or older) who were taking at least 1 medication were included in the current analyses (N=287). QOL was measured using the Euroqual EQ-5D and the Visual Analog Scale (EQ-VAS). Older adults reported their knowledge of PCCML on a set of 4 Likert-type scale items concerning the PCCMLs. Statistical analyses included descriptive statistics, analysis of variance, correlation analysis, and linear regression.Study participants scored on average 16.20 (standard deviation [SD]=3.41) for knowledge of PCCML. Patient knowledge of PCCML was associated with age (r(s)=-0.1469, P=.0127), race/ethnicity (F=4.40, P=.0131), education (r(s)=0.1984, P=.0007), and household income (r(s)=0.1539, P=.0159). Study participants had an average EQ-5D score of 0.82 (SD=0.16) and EQ-VAS score of 77.80 (SD=15.07). Multivariate linear regression results showed that 1 unit increase in patient knowledge resulted in 0.62 unit increase (P=.017) in EQ-VAS QOL scores after adjusting for the impact of other variables. However, patient knowledge of PCCML did not significantly predict EQ-5D QOL scores (β^=0.002, P=.4633) when all other variables were controlled.Patient knowledge of medication use was associated with QOL among older adults. New standardized labels should be designed to improve patient knowledge of PCCML information. Furthermore, providers of medication therapy management should ensure that older adults have a complete knowledge of the PCCML information.DAFNE (Dose Adjustment For Normal Eating), a structured education program in flexible insulin therapy, has been widely adopted in the U.K. after validation in a randomized trial. To determine benefits in routine practice, we collected biomedical and psychological data from all participants attending during a 12-month period.HbA(1c), weight, self-reported hypoglycemia awareness, severe hypoglycemia frequency, PAID (Problem Areas In Diabetes), HADS (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale), and EuroQol Group 5-Dimension Self-Report Questionnaire scores were recorded prior to DAFNE and after 1 year.Complete baseline and follow-up HbA(1c) data were available for 639 (54.9%) of 1,163 attendees. HbA(1c) fell from 8.51 ± 1.41 (mean ± SD) to 8.24 ± 1.29% (difference 0.27 [95% CI 0.16-0.38]; P < 0.001), with a greater mean fall of 0.44% from baseline HbA(1c) >8.5%. Severe hypoglycemia rate fell from 1.7 ± 8.5 to 0.6 ± 3.7 episodes per person per year (1.1 [0.7-1.4]) and hypoglycemia recognition improved in 43% of those reporting unawareness. Baseline psychological distress was evident, with a PAID score of 25.2 and HADS scores of 5.3 (anxiety) and 4.8 (depression), falling to 16.7 (8.5 [6.6-10.4]), 4.6 (0.7 [0.4-1.0]), and 4.2 (0.6 [0.3-0.8]), respectively (all P < 0.001 at 1 year). Clinically relevant anxiety and depression (HADS ≥ 8) fell from 24.4 to 18.0% and 20.9 to 15.5%, respectively.A structured education program delivered in routine clinical practice not only improves HbA(1c) while reducing severe hypoglycemia rate and restoring hypoglycemia awareness but also reduces psychological distress and improves perceived well-being.High blood pressure is common in the acute phase of stroke and is associated with poor outcome. We examined whether blood pressure-lowering treatment with candesartan in the acute phase affects long-term cognitive function and quality of life.Scandinavian Candesartan Acute Stroke Trial was a randomized-controlled and placebo-controlled trial of candesartan in 2029 patients with acute stroke and raised blood pressure. At 6 months, cognitive function was assessed by the Mini Mental State Examination and quality of life by the EuroQol instrument. We used ordinal logistic and multiple linear regression for statistical analysis, adjusting for predefined key variables.Median Mini Mental State Examination score was 28 in both groups, and there was no significant difference between the distribution of Mini Mental State Examination scores in the 2 groups (common odds ratio, 1.11; 95% confidence interval, 0.91-1.34; P=0.32). Median EuroQol-5D index were 0.74 and 0.78 (P=0.034), and the mean EuroQol-visual analogue scale scores were 66.0 and 67.3 in the candesartan and placebo groups, respectively (P=0.11).Candesartan did not improve cognitive function or quality of life. Rather, there were signs of harmful effects. These findings support the conclusion from our previous report that there is no indication for routine blood pressure-lowering treatment with candesartan in the acute phase of stroke.www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00120003.An investigator-initiated, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, treat-to-target protocol (Clinical Trials:NCT00660647) studied whether adalimumab added to methotrexate and intra-articular triamcinolone as first-line treatment in early rheumatoid arthritis (ERA) increased the frequency of low disease activity (DAS28CRP<3.2) at 12 months.In 14 Danish hospital-based clinics, 180 disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARD)-naïve ERA patients (<6 months duration) received methotrexate 7.5 mg/week (increased to 20 mg/week within 2 months) plus adalimumab 40 mg every other week (adalimumab-group, n=89) or methotrexate+placebo-adalimumab (placebo-group, n=91). At all visits, triamcinolone was injected into swollen joints (max. four joints/visit). If low disease activity was not achieved, sulfasalazine 2 g/day and hydroxychloroquine 200 mg/day were added after 3 months, and open-label biologics after 6-9 months. Efficacy was assessed primarily on the proportion of patients who reached treatment target (DAS28CRP<3.2). Secondary endpoints included DAS28CRP, remission, Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), EQ-5D and SF-12. Analysis was by intention-to-treat with last observation carried forward.Baseline characteristics were similar between groups. In the adalimumab group/placebo group the 12-month cumulative triamcinolone doses were 5.4/7.0 ml (p=0.08). Triple therapy was applied in 18/27 patients (p=0.17). At 12 months, DAS28CRP<3.2 was reached in 80%/76% (p=0.65) and DAS28CRP was 2.0 (1.7-5.2) (medians (5th/95th percentile ranges)), versus 2.6 (1.7-4.7) (p=0.009). Remission rates were: DAS28CRP<2.6: 74%/49%, Clinical Disease Activity Index≤2.8: 61%/41%, Simplified Disease Activity Index<3.3: 57%/37%, European League Against Rheumatism/American College of Rheumatology Boolean: 48%/30% (0.0008<p<0.014, number-needed-to-treat: 4.0-5.4). Twelve months HAQ, SF12PCS and EQ-5D improvements were most pronounced in the adalimumab group. Treatments were well tolerated.Adalimumab added to methotrexate and intra-articular triamcinolone as first-line treatment did not increase the proportion of patients who reached the DAS28CRP<3.2 treatment target, but improved DAS28CRP, remission rates, function and quality of life in DMARD-naïve ERA.To assess the impact of return-to-work (RTW) status on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) over a 2-year period in workers with traumatic limb injuries and to elucidate factors that may contribute to the association of RTW with HRQOL.A 2-year repeated-measurements follow-up study using the generalized estimating equations approach for model fitting to account for within-subject correlations of HRQOL.One teaching hospital.Injured patients (N=966, 61% men) with a mean age of 44.7 years.Not applicable.The RTW status, HRQOL (assessed by the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire), and activity/participation were repeatedly surveyed at 2 weeks and 1, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after injury. A series of regression models was used to examine the associations between HRQOL and RTW, with sequential adjustment for explanatory variables such as personal and environmental factors, body structure and function, activity/participation, and postinjury period.Over a 2-year study period, 81.2% of the study participants had 1 or more RTW episodes; 38.2% of them successfully maintained their RTW status until the end. A significant positive association was found between RTW status and HRQOL. The association could largely be explained by the domains of activity/participation. A higher HRQOL was associated with a shorter length of hospital stay, better coping ability, frequent participation in activities of daily living, and a longer postinjury period. A reduced HRQOL, however, was observed for participants with more depressive symptoms.RTW showed a positive and independent influence on HRQOL in workers with limb injury. In addition, the activity/participation domains and the elapsed time since injury largely explained the association between RTW and HRQOL.To determine the cost-effective operative strategy for coronary artery bypass surgery in patients above 70 years.Randomized, controlled trial of 900 patients above 70 years of age subjected to coronary artery bypass surgery. Patients were randomized to either on-pump or off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery. Data on direct and indirect costs were prospectively collected. Preoperatively and six months postoperatively, quality of life was assessed using EuroQol-5D questionnaires. Perioperative in-hospital costs and costs of re-intervention were included.The Summary Score of EuroQol-5D increased in both groups between preoperatively and postoperatively. In the on-pump group, it increased from 0.75 (0.16) (mean (SD)) to 0.84 (0.17), while the increase in the off-pump group was from 0.75 (0.15) to 0.84 (0.18). The difference between the groups was 0.0016 QALY and not significantly different. The mean costs were 148.940 D.Kr (CI, 130.623 D.Kr-167.252 D.Kr) for an on-pump patient and 138.693 D.Kr (CI, 123.167 D.Kr-154.220 D.Kr) for an off-pump patient. The ICER base-case point estimate was 6,829,999 D.Kr/QALY. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve showed 89% probability of off-pump being cost-effective at a threshold value of 269,400 D.Kr/QALY.Off-pump surgery tends to be more cost-effective than on-pump surgery. Long-term comparisons are warranted.Substance use disorders (SUDs) have a serious impact on several life areas, including family functioning. This study examined problem areas that patients with SUDs and their family members experience in terms of quality of relations, psychological problems, physical distress, and quality of life. A sample of 32 dyads--persons with SUDs and a family member--were recruited from a substance abuse treatment program, and completed the Maudsley Addiction Profile health symptoms section, EuroQol-5D, Relationship Happiness Scale, Dyadic Adjustment Scale, and the Dedication Scale. Family members reported that four significant others were directly affected by patients' addiction-related problems, while patients reported that less than three family members were affected by their addiction. Consistently, family members indicated that they were less content with their relationship than patients and evaluated the consequences of patients' SUDs as more negative and severe than the patients themselves. Furthermore, patients and their family members reported comparable levels of physical and psychological distress and quality of life scores. These systematically obtained findings support the notion that relationships of patients and family members are disrupted and both need help to improve their physical and psychological well-being. To evaluate the proportion of "successes" after surgery for femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) using different external criteria, "feeling better" and "feeling good", and to determine the corresponding cut-off scores indicating "success" for the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) (0-10-point response scale), Oxford Hip Score (OHS) and EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D and EQ-VAS).Prospective, observational study based in an orthopaedic hospital. Ninety-nine consecutive patients with FAI completed the questionnaires before and 6 months after surgery (arthroscopy or mini-open surgical dislocation). Patient-ratings of change in state ("feeling better") were assessed using a global treatment outcome (GTO) item. Acceptability of the current health state was assessed using the symptom-specific well-being (SSWB) item. Cut-off (threshold) scores for the different instruments indicating the minimal clinically important change (MCIC) and acceptable symptom state were calculated using Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) analyses.Significant improvements in all scores (P < 0.001) were recorded 6 months after surgery. The proportion of good outcomes measured with GTO was 60%; 55% of patients reported having achieved an acceptable symptom state. The MCIC scores for improvement were ≥6 for the OHS (0-48 total score range), ≥15 for EQ-VAS, ≥0.16 for EQ-5D index, and ≥22 for the WOMAC-total score (0-100 total score range); absolute scores of ≥40, ≥80, ≥0.682 and ≤8, respectively, were associated with an acceptable symptom state.The results show that feeling better does not always equate to feeling good, and that improvements in outcome scores, even large, do not necessarily indicate acceptability of the current state. The cut-off values may help in the interpretation of trial results and individual change-scores recorded in clinical practice.Few data are available from randomised trials about the effect of thrombolysis with alteplase on long-term functional outcome in patients who have had acute ischaemic stroke and no trial has reported effects on health-related quality of life. A secondary objective of the third International Stroke Trial (IST-3) was to assess the effect of thrombolysis on such outcomes at 18 months.In this open-label, international, multicentre, randomised, controlled trial, 3035 patients with ischaemic stroke from 12 countries were randomly allocated within 6 h of onset via a secure central system to either intravenous alteplase (0·9 mg/kg; n=1515) plus standard care or standard care alone (control; n=1520). 2348 patients were scheduled for 18-month follow-up. For our main analysis, survivors were assessed at 18 months with the Oxford handicap scale (OHS; the primary outcome was the adjusted odds of OHS score 0-2). We also used the EuroQoL (EQ) instrument and asked questions about overall functioning and living circumstances. We analysed the OHS and the five EQ domains by ordinal logistic regression and calculated the mean difference between treatment groups in EQ utility index and visual analogue scale score. Analyses were adjusted for key baseline prognostic factors. This study is registered with controlled-trials.com, number ISRCTN25765518.At 18 months, 408 (34·9%) of 1169 patients in the alteplase group versus 414 (35·1%) of 1179 in the control group had died (p=0·85). 391 (35·0%) of 1117 patients versus 352 (31·4%) of 1122 had an OHS score of 0-2 (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 1·28, 95% CI 1·03-1·57; p=0·024). Treatment was associated with a favourable shift in the distribution of OHS grades (adjusted common OR 1·30, 95% CI 1·10-1·55; p=0·002). Alteplase treatment was associated with significantly higher overall self-reported health (adjusted mean difference in EQ utility index 0·060; p=0·019). The differences between the groups in visual analogue scale score and the proportion living at home were not significant.IST-3 provides evidence that thrombolysis with intravenous alteplase for acute ischaemic stroke does not affect survival, but does lead to statistically significant, clinically relevant improvements in functional outcome and health-related quality of life that are sustained for at least 18 months.UK Medical Research Council, Health Foundation UK, Stroke Association UK, Research Council of Norway, AFA Insurances Sweden, Swedish Heart Lung Fund, The Foundation of Marianne and Marcus Wallenberg, Polish Ministry of Science and Education, the Australian Heart Foundation, Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, Swiss National Research Foundation, Swiss Heart Foundation, Assessorato alla Sanita (Regione dell'Umbria, Italy), and Danube University.To assess patient reported symptom burden and impact on disease specific health related quality of life (HRQOL) in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.Patients with advanced (stage IIIB/IV) NSCLC in France (n = 613) and Germany (n = 600) were recruited into a multicenter, patient record-based cross-sectional study. Patient reported symptoms using the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale, which assesses fatigue, loss of appetite, shortness of breath, cough, pain and blood in sputum on a 0-100 visual analog scale. Disease specific and generic HRQOL were assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L) and the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D) respectively. A multivariate regression analysis was performed with total FACT-L score as the dependent variable and symptom scores as predictors. Age, gender, stage and performance status were used as control variables.Majority of the patients were male (67%), Caucasian (93%) with an average age of 63 years. Fatigue, loss of appetite, shortness of breath, cough and pain were reported by ≥ 90% of patients. The mean health utility index score was found to be 0.58 and the mean general health status score was 58.0. Fatigue (β = -0.122; p < 0.001), loss of appetite (β = -0.170; p < 0.001), pain (β = -0.145; p < 0.001), shortness of breath (β = -0.118; p < 0.001) were found to be significant predictors of lung cancer specific quality of life as measured by the FACT-L total score.Fatigue, loss of appetite, shortness of breath and pain have a significant negative impact on patient reported disease specific HRQOL in advanced NSCLC patients.Surgical management of suspected LGG remains controversial. A key factor when deciding a surgical strategy is often the tumors' perceived relationship to eloquent brain regionsTo study the association between tumor location, survival and long-term health related quality of life (HRQL) in patients with supratentorial low-grade gliomas (LGG).Adults (≥18 years) operated due to newly diagnosed LGG from 1998 through 2009 included from two Norwegian university hospitals. After review of initial histopathology, 153 adults with supratentorial WHO grade II LGG were included in the study. Tumors' anatomical location and the relationship to eloquent regions were graded. Survival analysis was adjusted for known prognostic factors and the initial surgical procedure (biopsy or resection). In long-term survivors, HRQL was assessed with disease specific questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30 and BN20) as well as a generic questionnaire (EuroQol 5D).There was a significant association between eloquence and survival (log-rank, p<0.001). The estimated 5-year survival was 77% in non-eloquent tumors, 71% in intermediate located tumors and 54% in eloquent tumors. In the adjusted analysis the hazard ratio of increasing eloquence was 1.5 (95% CI 1.1-2.0, p = 0.022). There were no differences in HRQL between patients with eloquent and non-eloquent tumors. The most frequent self-reported symptoms were related to fatigue, cognition, and future uncertainty.Eloquently located LGGs are associated with impaired survival compared to non-eloquently located LGG, but in long-term survivors HRQL is similar. Although causal inference from observational data should be done with caution, the findings illuminate the delicate balance in surgical decision making in LGGs, and add support to the probable survival benefits of aggressive surgical strategies, perhaps also in eloquent locations.Studies indicate that acquired deficits negatively affect patients' self-reported health related quality of life (HRQOL) and survival, but the impact of HRQOL deterioration after surgery on survival has not been explored.Assess if change in HRQOL after surgery is a predictor for survival in patients with glioblastoma.Sixty-one patients with glioblastoma were included. The majority of patients (n = 56, 91.8%) were operated using a neuronavigation system which utilizes 3D preoperative MRI and updated intraoperative 3D ultrasound volumes to guide resection. HRQOL was assessed using EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D), a generic instrument. HRQOL data were collected 1-3 days preoperatively and after 6 weeks. The mean change in EQ-5D index was -0.05 (95% CI -0.15-0.05) 6 weeks after surgery (p = 0.285). There were 30 patients (49.2%) reporting deterioration 6 weeks after surgery. In a Cox multivariate survival analysis we evaluated deterioration in HRQOL after surgery together with established risk factors (age, preoperative condition, radiotherapy, temozolomide and extent of resection).There were significant independent associations between survival and use of temozolomide (HR 0.30, p = 0.019), radiotherapy (HR 0.26, p = 0.030), and deterioration in HRQOL after surgery (HR 2.02, p = 0.045). Inclusion of surgically acquired deficits in the model did not alter the conclusion.Early deterioration in HRQOL after surgery is independently and markedly associated with impaired survival in patients with glioblastoma. Deterioration in patient reported HRQOL after surgery is a meaningful outcome in surgical neuro-oncology, as the measure reflects both the burden of symptoms and treatment hazards and is linked to overall survival.Meningiomas may influence both survival and neurological functions. Studies assessing the impact of surgery on health-related quality of life (HRQL) remain absent. In this prospective study we aimed to describe HRQL dynamics before and after surgery in patients with meningiomas. HRQL assessments were performed using EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D), a generic HRQL instrument. All adult patients with suspected intracranial meningioma from 2007 through 2011 were eligible for inclusion, and 54 patients were included after informed consent. All patients received a histopathological diagnosis of meningioma. The average preoperative EQ-5D index value (±SD) was 0.69 ± 0.26. The mean improvement 6 weeks after surgery was 0.06 (95 % CI, -0.03 to 0.16; p = 0.161) and the mean long term improvement was 0.09 (95 % CI, 0.00-0.17; p = 0.040). Surgery reduced pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression and improved the capability of performing usual activities. Clinically significant improvement at long-term assessment was noted in 25 patients (49 %) while a significant deterioration was reported in 10 patients (20 %). Patients who reported postoperative worsening of HRQL were also reporting better preoperative scores, suggesting a possible ceiling effect of EQ-5D in some of these patients. In our patients a modest average improvement in HRQL was seen after surgery for meningioma. About half of the patients reported a clinical important improvement at the late follow-up assessment. This improvement was mainly observed in the domains usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. However, one in five patients fared worse on late follow-up assessment, a figure of particular importance when treating asymptomatic meningiomas.Data from 500 male and 500 female Sprague-Dawley rats used as controls in studies performed at Huntingdon Research Centre to assess the safety of drugs were sampled at 17, 30, 56, 82, or 108 weeks of age. Plasma urea nitrogen levels remained constant, except in aged males. Aging caused increased proteinuria and decreased urinary concentrating ability, in addition to increased size, weight, and degree of cortical scarring of kidneys. Chronic progressive nephropathy, first seen histopathologically at 30 weeks of age, accounted for these changes and ultimately affected 81% of male and 44% of female rats. One-fifth of two-year-old male rats had diffuse parenchymal damage and a small number also had secondary hyperparathyroidism. Other notable changes included basophilic (often colloid-filled) cortical tubules, mononuclear cell infiltrations, parenchymal and pelvic mineralization, urothelial hyperplasia, and pyelonephritis. Miscellaneous low incidence findings included one lipomatous tumour and generalized lymphosarcoma.The SF-6D and EQ-5D are widely used generic index measures as health-related quality of life. We assessed within-subject agreement between SF-6D and EQ-5D utilities with different preference weights, and their validities in measuring Chinese rural residents, before and after standardization scores.Rural residents over 18 years old were interviewed using EQ-5D and SF-6D in Jiangsu Province, China. EQ-5D utility-scoring algorithms were used from three conversion tables from the United Kingdom, Japan, and the United States. Validities, Sensitivity and agreement between instruments were computed and compared. Factors affecting utility difference were explored with multiple liner regression models. Scores with standardization intervals of 0-1 in the two instruments were analyzed by the use of the above methods again. In 929 respondents, relative efficiency statistic and receiver operating characteristic curves analysis showed SF-6D to be the more efficient, followed by the EQ-5D model in Japan weights. Bland-Altman plot analysis showed paired SF-6D/EQ-5D in UK weights had better agreement. Though some risk factors were found, multiple liner regression demonstrated most coefficients were weaker than 0.2, and all R(2) values were less than 0.06. Standardization did not significantly influence these results except scores' value.SF-6D and next EQ-5D in Japan weights could be used for Chinese rural residents. Further research with larger sample size of population is needed to establish and determine the feasibility of standardization score.This study explores whether fetal allograft survival is age dependent and organ specific. Fetal rat tissue (renal, gonadal, hepatic) from the third trimester of gestation (days 15-21) was transplanted into 306 outbred adult rats for 10-30 days. Grafts were studied by morphometric and histologic analysis. Ten days after implantation, renal tissue (N = 75) from late gestation (days 19-21) showed no increase in size. In contrast, 17-day fetal grafts (N = 20) grew 6.8 +/- 3.4 times,* while 15-day fetal grafts (N = 28) grew 17.5 +/- 6.1* times. (The symbol "*" indicates p less than 0.05, compared to original size). Twenty days after implantation, these 15-day fetal grafts (N = 20) grew 48.8 +/- 17.7* times. Ten days after grafting, the younger fetal tissue showed excellent maturation of renal elements and no sign of rejection; older fetal grafts had poor renal architecture and a dense lymphocytic infiltrate. The 15-day fetal gonadal tissue (N = 18) showed a moderate 10.6 +/- 3.2* increase in size while the 15-day hepatic grafts (N = 16) were regularly rejected within 10 days. Selected fetal allografts from early in the third trimester can not only survive but can grow and mature in an immunocompetent recipient. This fetal graft growth appears to be both age dependent and organ specific. The use of fetal organs may broaden the potential pool for transplantation. However, further studies are needed to define the ontogeny of graft acceptance.We conducted a pilot study of the effectiveness of home telehealth for patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease treated with long-term oxygen therapy. Patients were randomized into a telehealth group (n = 24) and a control group (n = 21) who received usual care. Patients in the telehealth group measured their vital signs on weekdays and performed spirometry on two days per week. The data were transmitted automatically to a clinical call centre. After four months of monitoring the mean number of accident and emergency department visits in the telehealth group was slightly lower than in the control group (0.29 versus 0.43, P = 0.25). The mean number of hospital admissions was 0.38 in the telehealth group and 0.14 in the control group (P = 0.47). During the study a total of 40 alerts were detected. The clinical triage process detected eight clinical exacerbations which were escalated by the case manager for a specialist consultation. There were clinically important differences in health-related quality of life in both groups. The mean score on the SGRQ was 10.9 versus 4.5 in the control group (P = 0.53). The EuroQol-5D score improved by 0.036 in the telehealth group and by 0.003 in the control group (P = 0.68). Both patients and healthcare professionals showed a high level of satisfaction with the telehealth programme.This study investigates how cognition influences activities of daily living and health-related quality of life in 85-year-olds in Sweden (n = 373). Data collection included a postal questionnaire comprising demographics and health-related quality of life measured by the EQ-5D. The ability to perform personal activities of daily living (PADL) was assessed during a home visit that included administering the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE). Cognitive impairment was shown in 108 individuals (29%). The majority were independent with respect to PADL. A larger number of participants with cognitive impairment reported that they needed assistance in instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) compared to the group without cognitive impairment. Impaired cognition was significantly related to problems with IADL. Significant but low correlations were found between cognition and health-related quality of life - higher ratings on perceived quality of life correlated with higher results on the MMSE.Seventy-one patients (93 implants) had a de la Caffinière prosthesis implanted between 1980 and 1989 and were reviewed and reported in 1997. We reviewed this series 10 years later. Similar outcome measures were used as in the original study, pinch and grip strength measured and validated outcome scores obtained (DASH and EQ-5D). Radiographic outcome was assessed. Twenty-six patients with 39 implants were available for review at a mean of 19 years (range, 16-26 years). Survivorship at 26 years was 73.9% (95% CI, 61.2 to 86.6) for re-operation and 26.0% (95% CI, 0 to 52.7) for all failure. Patients had satisfactory power and thumb mobility and continued to be satisfied without pain. Registries should log such prostheses and add to implant survival data.To perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of subacromial corticosteroid injection combined with exercise compared with exercise alone in patients with moderate to severe shoulder pain from subacromial impingement syndrome.A within-trial cost-effectiveness analysis with 232 patients randomized to physiotherapy-led injection combined with exercise (n = 115) or exercise alone (n = 117). The analysis was from a health care perspective with 24-week follow-up. Resource use information was collected from all patients on interventions, medication, primary and secondary care contacts, private health care use and over-the-counter purchases. The measure of outcome was quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), calculated from EQ-5D responses at baseline and three further time points. An incremental cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted.Mean per patient NHS costs (£255 vs £297) and overall health care costs (£261 vs £318) were lower in the injection plus exercise arm, but this difference was not statistically significant. Total QALYs gained were very similar in the two trial arms (0.3514 vs 0.3494 QALYs), although slightly higher in the injection plus exercise arm, indicating that injection plus exercise may be the dominant treatment option. At a willingness to pay of £20,000 per additional QALY gained, there was a 61% probability that injection plus exercise was the most cost-effective option.Injection plus exercise delivered by therapists may be a cost-effective use of resources compared with exercise alone and lead to lower health care costs and less time off work.International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number Register, http://www.controlled-trials.com/isrctn/, ISRCT 25817033.The dynamics of the accumulation of phase II S. sonnei in the infectious process in germ-free rats, during cultivation and in subcultures was studied. The in vivo variability of S. sonnei showed a sharply defined phasic character of the process with the periods of the apparent absence of phase II, the increase of its occurrence and stabilization with the preservation of S-forms in minor amounts. Kanamycin-resistant phase II accumulated in vivo more rapidly than in vitro. Cultivation with sodium desoxycholate was found to accelerate the process of disassociation. The characteristic feature of all dissociants detected in all systems was their plasmid profile: in phase I, plasmids of 120 and 60 Md, as well as small plasmids, were detected; in phase II disassociants, plasmid with a molecular weight of 120 Md was absent. The restriction analysis of total plasmid DNA by means of restrictase EcoR1 showed the absence of 3 fragments in phase II while other 13 fragments were retained. These results open prospects for the molecular cloning of the gene antigen of phase II.To compare EuroQol 5-Dimensions (EQ-5D) utility and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) in patients with early, methotrexate (MTX) refractory rheumatoid arthritis (RA), randomised to addition of infliximab (IFX) or sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine (SSZ+HCQ).RA-patients with symptoms <1 year were enrolled between 2002 and 2005 at 15 Swedish centres. After 3-4 months of MTX monotherapy, patients with a remaining DAS28>3.2 were randomised to addition of IFX or SSZ+HCQ and followed for 21 months. EQ-5D profiles were collected every 3 months. Between-group comparisons of utility change and accumulated QALYs were performed, using last observation carried forward (LOCF) following protocol breach. Missing data were imputed by linear interpolation or LOCF. Sensitivity analyses applying baseline observation carried forward (BOCF) or restricted to completers were conducted.Of 487 patients initially enrolled, 128 and 130 were randomised to IFX or SSZ+HCQ, respectively. Mean utility in the IFX and SSZ+HCQ groups increased from 0.52 (SD 0.27) and 0.55 (SD 0.27) at randomisation to 0.66 (SD 0.25) and 0.63 (SD 0.27) at 21 months (adjusted mean difference favouring IFX 0.04; 95% CI -0.01, 0.09; p=0.15). Average accumulated QALYs were 1.10 (SD 0.37) and 1.07 (SD 0.42) in the IFX and SSZ+HCQ groups, respectively (adjusted mean difference favouring IFX 0.07; 95%CI -0.01, 0.14; p=0.07). BOCF analysis showed similar results, while differences were reversed, though remained statistically non-significant among completers. Dropout rates in the IFX/SSZ+HCQ groups were 30%/43% (p=0.01).Comparing addition of IFX or SSZ+HCQ to MTX in active early RA, no statistically significant differences in utility or QALY gain could be detected over 21 months.Registered in WHO database at the Karolinska University Hospital, number CT20080004.The Achilles tendon Total Rupture Score was developed by a research group in 2007 in response to the need for a patient reported outcome measure for this patient population. Beyond this original development paper, no further validation studies have been published.Consequently the purpose of this study was to evaluate internal consistency, convergent validity and responsiveness of this newly developed patient reported outcome measure within patients who have sustained an isolated acute Achilles tendon rupture.Sixty-four eligible patients with an acute rupture of their Achilles tendon completed the Achilles tendon Total Rupture Score alongside two further patient reported outcome measures (Disability Rating Index and EQ 5D). These were completed at baseline, six weeks, three months, six months and nine months post injury. The Achilles tendon Total Rupture Score was evaluated for internal consistency, using Cronbach's alpha, convergent validity, through correlation analysis and responsiveness, by analysing floor and ceiling effects and calculating its relative efficiency in comparison to the Disability Rating Index and EQ 5D scores.The Achilles tendon Total Rupture Score demonstrated high internal consistency (Cronbachs alpha > 0.8) and correlated significantly (p < 0.001) with the Disability Rating Index at five time points (pre-injury, six weeks, three, six and nine months) with correlation coefficients between -0.5 and -0.9. However, the confidence intervals were wide. Furthermore, the ability of the new score to detect clinically important changes over time (responsiveness) was shown to be greater than the Disability Rating Index and EQ 5D.A universally accepted outcome measure is imperative to allow comparisons to be made across practice. This is the first study to evaluate aspects of validity of this newly developed outcome measure, outside of the developing centre. The ATRS demonstrated high internal consistency and responsiveness, with limited convergent validity. This research provides further support for the use of this outcome measure, however further research is required to advocate its universal use in patients with acute Achilles tendon ruptures. Such areas include inter-rater reliability and research to determine the minimally clinically important difference between scores.All authors have read and concur with the content of this manuscript. The material presented has not been and will not be submitted for publication elsewhere, except as an abstract. All authors have made substantial contributions to all of the following: (1) the conception and design of the study, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data, (2) drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content and (3) final approval of the submitted version. This research has been funded by Arthritis Research UK, no conflicts of interests have been declared by the authors.Our aim was to develop a patient reported outcome measure of satisfaction following total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and assess its correlation with Oxford knee score (OKS), Quality of life (EQ5D) and Visual analogue scale for pain (VAS). 172 patients with minimum 5year follow up post primary total knee arthroplasty completed CASI, OKS, EQ5D and VAS for pain. Receiver-operator curve analysis was performed to identify an OKS threshold of poor satisfaction defined by CASI rarely/never. The CASI showed positive correlation with the OKS, VAS for pain, and EQ5D, (Spearman's rho); 0.779; 0.711; 0.629. A threshold of 20 for the Oxford Knee score had 85% specificity and 85% sensitivity for poor satisfaction on CASI. The CASI is a useful measure of patient satisfaction following TKA.Injuries to working age adults are common and place a considerable burden on health services accounting for more than 10% of GP sick notes and 14% of those claiming benefits because they are unable to work in the UK. General practitioners (GPs) currently assess fitness to work and provide care and referral to other services to facilitate return to work (RTW). Recent UK recommendations suggest replacing GP sickness certification with independent assessments of fitness to work after four weeks sick leave. The impact of a wide range of injuries on RTW and subsequent need for independent fitness to work assessments has not been well studied in the UK. The aim of this study was to quantify RTW and factors predicting RTW following a wide range of injuries.We used a multicentre longitudinal study, set in four acute NHS Trusts in the UK which recruited emergency department (ED) attenders and hospital admissions for injury and included those aged 16-65years that were employed or self-employed before the injury. Participants were followed up by postal questionnaire at 1, 4 and 12 months post injury to measure health status (EQ-5D), recovery, use of health and social services, time off work in the preceding month and work problems amongst those who had RTW. Multivariable Poisson regression with a robust variance estimator was used to estimate relative risks for factors associated with RTW.One month after injury 35% of ED attenders had fully RTW. The self employed were more likely (RR 1.70, 95% CI 1.17 to 2.47 compared with employed) and the moderate/severely injured less likely to RTW (RR 0.48, 95% CI 0.32 to 0.72 compared with minor injuries). At four months, 83% of ED attenders had RTW and self employment and injury severity remained significant predictors of RTW (self employment RR 1.15, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.30; moderate/severe injury RR 0.79, 95% CI 0.68 to 0.92). At four months 57% of hospital admissions had RTW. Men were more likely than women to RTW (RR 1.94, 95% CI 1.34 to 2.82), whilst those injured at work (RR 0.49, 95% CI 0.27 to 0.87 compared with at home) and those living in deprived areas (most deprived tertile RR 0.59, 95% CI 0.40 to 0.85 and middle tertile RR 0.61, 95% CI 0.40 to 0.93) were less likely to RTW. Health status was significantly poorer at one and four months after injury than before the injury and was significantly poorer amongst those that had not RTW compared to those that had. Problems with pain control, undertaking usual activities, mobility and anxiety and depression were common and persisted in a considerable proportion of participants up to four months post injury.Injuries have a large impact on time off work, including amongst those whose injuries did not warrant hospital admission. The majority of injured people would require an in-depth fitness for work assessment if recent UK recommendations are implemented. Many people will have on-going pain, mobility problems, anxiety and depression at the point of assessment and it is important that patients are encouraged to use primary care services to address these problems. A range of factors may be useful for identifying those at risk of a slower recovery and a delayed RTW so that appropriate interventions can be provided to this group.Health-related quality of life (HRQL) is a relevant outcome measures in intensive care unit (ICU). The aim of this study was to evaluate HRQL of ICU patients 3 months after discharge using the Arabic version for Morocco of the EuroQol-5-Dimension (EQ-5D), and to examine the psychometric properties of the questionnaire.The Arabic version for Morocco of the EQ-5D was approved by the EuroQol group. A prospective cohort study was conducted after medical ICU discharge. At 3-month follow up, the EQ-5D (self classifier and EQ-VAS) was administered in consultation or by telephone. EQ-VAS varies from 0 (better HRQL) to 100 (worst HRQL). An unweighted scoring for EQ5D-index was calculated. EQ5D-index ranges from -0.59 to 1. Test-retest reliability of the EQ-5D was tested using Kappa coefficient and intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Criterion validity was assessed by correlating EQ-VAS and EQ5D-index with the Short Form 36 (SF-36). Construct validity was tested using simple and multiple liner regression to assess factors influencing patients'HRQL. 145 survivors answered the EQ-5D. Median EQ5D-index was 0.52 [0.20-1]. Mean EQ-VAS was 62 ± 20. Test-retest reliability was conducted in 83 patients. ICCs of EQ5D-index and EQ-VAS were 0.95 and 0.92 respectively. For EQ-5D self classifier, agreement by kappa was above 0.40. Significant correlations were noted between EQ5D-index, EQ-VAS and SF-36 (p < 0.001). In multivariate analysis, factors associated with poorer HRQL for EQ5D-index were longer ICU length of stay (β = -0.01; p = 0.017) and higher educational level (β = -0.2; p = 0.001). For EQ-VAS men were associated with better HRQL (β = 6.5; p = 0.048).The Arabic version for Morocco of the EQ-5D is reliable and valid. Women, high educational level and longer ICU length of stay were associated with poorer HRQL.Multimorbidity is a common problem in elderly populations and is significantly associated with functional decline, disability, and mortality. However, the sex-specific characteristics of multimorbidity and its effect on patients' quality of life (QOL) have not been clearly established.We analyzed the Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey database. EuroQol 5D (a standardized health outcomes measurement instrument that includes 2 dimensions, the EuroQol 5 Dimension [EQ-5D] index score and the EuroQol visual analogue scale [EQ-VAS]) was used to evaluate QOL. Multimorbidity was evaluated using data on blood pressure measurements, blood chemistry examinations, and anthropometric assessments, as well as a survey that assessed health status.A total of 1419 patients aged ≥65 years were included in the analysis (age = 72.40 [0.19] years; 39.3% men). Multimorbidity was significantly associated with being a woman; however, it was not associated with age. The EQ-5D index score and EQ-VAS score were significantly lower in patients with multimorbidity, especially among the elderly women. The inverse association between QOL and the number of chronic diseases was maintained without a floor effect. Hypertension was the most common disease; however, QOL was significantly associated with musculoskeletal disease, stroke, and depression, all of which were more common in female patients. There was no significant difference in QOL between men and women with similar levels of comorbidity.Both the amount and pattern of chronic diseases have been associated with QOL in elderly populations. Elderly women have low levels of QOL due to multimorbidity and a higher prevalence of chronic disease, which is related to impaired QOL.The major objective of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that more effective alcoholism treatment would result from the provision of differential therapy, based on a differential assessment of psychopathology. A total of 135 alcoholics (125 male, 10 female), in-patients of a large psychiatric hospital in Co. Londonderry, Northern Ireland, were allocated to one of three psychopathological subgroups on the basis of their scores on the anxiety, depression and socialization factors of the Clinical Analysis Questionnaire (n = 45 in each group). Fifteen patients from each subgroup were assigned to one of two experimental treatment conditions or a control group. Experimental treatment Group 1 received therapy directed toward their psychopathology, while experimental treatment Group 2 received therapy directed toward their drinking behaviour per se. Therapeutic procedures were behavioural. The control group received only supportive counselling. The results at follow-up nine months later revealed that differences in improvement rates across groups were not statistically significant. A number of subsidiary hypotheses were also investigated and significant differences were found between the three psychopathological subgroups on factors relating to aetiology, course of alcoholism and prognosis.The purpose of this study was to assess the validity and reliability of the Korean version of the EQ-5D health questionnaire for use in patients with cancer in Korea.Patients with colorectal cancer were recruited from one ambulatory cancer center. Each participant consecutively self-administered the EQ-5D, the EORTC QLQ-C30, and the Short Form-36 (SF-36). Discriminatory ability was evaluated by comparing the SF-36 subscales with their corresponding EQ-5D dimensions. Convergent validity was assessed by examining the correlations between the EQ-5D index, EORTC QLQ-C30 subscales, and SF-36 scale and summary scores. Test-retest reliability was also evaluated.Subjects reporting problems in each EQ-5D dimension showed lower scores on all SF-36 subscales. As expected, the relationships were stronger between the EQ-5D functional dimensions and physical function on the EORTC QLQ-C30 and between the EQ-5D anxiety/depression dimension and emotional function on the EORTC QLQ-C30. The EQ-5D index and SF-36 scales were moderately or highly correlated. intraclass correlation coefficient of the EQ-5D index was 0.45.The Korean version of the EQ-5D may be a valid tool for assessing the health-related quality of life of patients with cancer. However, further research is needed to determine the reliability of the Korean EQ-5D over different time intervals and disease conditions.The EQ-5D-5L was developed to compensate for a high ceiling effect and lack of descriptive richness of the EQ-5D-3L. We evaluated psychometric properties of EQ-5D-5L in the general population.Six hundred of adults were sampled from the general population in South Korea using a multistage stratified quota sampling method. Participants completed the EQ-5D-5L, EQ-5D-3L, and SF-36v2. One hundred participants were resurveyed for reliability evaluation. The ceiling effect, known-groups construct validity, convergent and discriminant validity, and reliability of EQ-5D-5L were evaluated.A smaller proportion of participants answered 'no problem' to all dimensions of EQ-5D-5L (61.2 %) than EQ-5D-3L (65.7 %, p < 0.01), indicating a reduced ceiling effect. Female, elderly, low-educated, and low-income participants reported health problems more frequently, indicating known-groups construct validity. The mobility dimension of EQ-5D-5L was better correlated with the physical component score (|r| = 0.48) than the mental component score (|r| = 0.25) of the SF-36v2, and the anxiety/depression dimension was better correlated with mental component score (|r| = 0.45) than physical component score (|r| = 0.34), indicating convergent and discriminant validity. The intraclass correlation coefficient of EQ-5D-5L index was 0.75.The EQ-5D-5L has a smaller ceiling effect than the EQ-5D-3L and is a valid and reliable instrument to measure health-related quality of life in the general population.Health utilities of tuberculosis (TB) patients may be diminished by side effects from medication, prolonged treatment duration, physical effects of the disease itself, and social stigma attached to the disease.We collected health utility data from Thai patients who were on TB treatment or had been successfully treated for TB for the purpose of economic modeling. Structured questionnaire and EuroQol (EQ-5D) and EuroQol visual analog scale (EQ-VAS) instruments were used as data collection tools. We compared utility of patients with two co-morbidities calculated using multiplicative model (U(CAL)) with the direct measures and fitted Tobit regression models to examine factors predictive of health utility and to assess difference in health utilities of patients in various medical conditions.Of 222 patients analyzed, 138 (62%) were male; median age at enrollment was 40 years (interquartile range [IQR], 35-47). Median monthly household income was 6,000 Baht (187 US$; IQR, 4,000-15,000 Baht [125-469 US$]). Concordance correlation coefficient between utilities measured using EQ-5D and EQ-VAS (U(EQ-5D) and U(VAS), respectively) was 0.6. U(CAL) for HIV-infected TB patients was statistically different from the measured U(EQ-5D) (p-value<0.01) and U(VAS) (p-value<0.01). In tobit regression analysis, factors independently predictive of U(EQ-5D) included age and monthly household income. Patients aged ≥40 years old rated U(EQ-5D) significantly lower than younger persons. Higher U(EQ-5D) was significantly associated with higher monthly household income in a dose response fashion. The median U(EQ-5D) was highest among patients who had been successfully treated for TB and lowest among multi-drug resistant TB (MDR-TB) patients who were on treatment.U(CAL) of patients with two co-morbidities overestimated the measured utilities, warranting further research of how best to estimate utilities of patients with such conditions. TB and MDR-TB treatments impacted on patients' self perceived health status. This effect diminished after successful treatment.A cohort study based on the Swedish Spine Register.To determine the association between body mass index (BMI) and outcome of lumbar spine surgery for spinal stenosis.Several small studies have sought to evaluate the importance of obesity in relation to results after surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), but the findings are inconsistent and relatively weak.All patients who underwent surgery for LSS from January 1, 2006, to June 30, 2008, with a completed 2-year follow-up in the Swedish Spine Register were included. Logistic regression was used to assess the association between BMI and different outcomes.Of the 2633 patients enrolled, 819 (31%) had normal weight, 1208 (46%) were overweight, and 606 (23%) were obese. On average, all 3 BMI groups achieved significant improvements after surgery. A higher BMI, however, was associated with greater odds of dissatisfaction after surgery and inferior results at the 2-year follow-up. After adjusting for differences in baseline characteristics, the obese group demonstrated inferior function and quality of life as measured by the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and the EuroQol Group Index (EQ-5D), respectively. At the 2-year follow-up, obese patients had a mean ODI of 33 (95% confidence interval [CI], 31-34) and mean EQ-5D of 0.56 (95% CI, 0.54-0.59) compared with a mean ODI of 25 (95% CI, 24-26) and mean EQ-5D of 0.64 (95% CI, 0.62-0.66) in the normal weight group. When compared with the normal weight patients, the adjusted odds ratio for dissatisfaction was 1.73 in the obese group (95% CI, 1.36-2.19). Differences between the normal weight and overweight groups were modest and therefore could not be considered clinically relevant.Obese patients achieved significant pain reduction, better walking ability, and improved quality of life after surgical treatment of LSS. Nevertheless, obesity was associated with a higher degree of dissatisfaction and poorer outcomes after surgery for LSS.Leading multiple sclerosis (MS) therapies have patient support programs (PSPs) aimed at improving patients' lives. There is limited knowledge about what drives patient satisfaction with PSPs and little evidence about its impact on patient-reported health status or health-related quality of life.The aims of this study were to evaluate patient needs and the PSP's role in meeting those needs; understand the drivers of PSP satisfaction and loyalty; and assess whether a MS PSP provides quantifiable, incremental benefit to patients, as measured by patient-reported health status, health state utility, and/or health-related quality of life.An Internet survey was conducted among 1,123 adult German MS patients currently enrolled in Bayer's German BETAPLUS PSP. Health status, health state utility, and health-related quality of life were measured using the EQ-5D Visual Analog Scale, the EQ-5D Index, and Short Form-12 Health Survey, respectively.MS patient needs vary by disease severity, duration of disease, and gender. Patients with greater self-reported needs and lower health status, health state utility, and health-related quality of life value and use the PSP more than other patients. Drivers of PSP satisfaction include use of patient hotline, nurse telephone calls, and mail education. Patients estimate that their health status would be 15 points lower if the PSP ceased to exist (translating to 0.15 on the time trade-off utility scale). This impact is significant, as it is nearly two times the minimally important difference.MS patients place inherent value on PSPs. From a patient's viewpoint, PSPs provide real incremental benefit in patient-reported health status at all stages of MS.The purpose of this methodological study was to to provide insight into the under-addressed issue of the longitudinal predictive ability of mapping models. Post-intervention predicted and reported utilities were compared, and the effect of disease severity on the observed differences was examined.A cohort of 120 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients (60.0% female, mean age 59.0) embarking on therapy with biological agents completed the Modified Health Assessment Questionnaire (MHAQ) and the EQ-5D at baseline, and at 3, 6 and 12 months post-intervention. OLS regression produced a mapping equation to estimate post-intervention EQ-5D utilities from baseline MHAQ data. Predicted and reported utilities were compared with t test, and the prediction error was modeled, using fixed effects, in terms of covariates such as age, gender, time, disease duration, treatment, RF, DAS28 score, predicted and reported EQ-5D.The OLS model (RMSE = 0.207, R(2) = 45.2%) consistently underestimated future utilities, with a mean prediction error of 6.5%. Mean absolute differences between reported and predicted EQ-5D utilities at 3, 6 and 12 months exceeded the typically reported MID of the EQ-5D (0.03). According to the fixed-effects model, time, lower predicted EQ-5D and higher DAS28 scores had a significant impact on prediction errors, which appeared increasingly negative for lower reported EQ-5D scores, i.e., predicted utilities tended to be lower than reported ones in more severe health states.This study builds upon existing research having demonstrated the potential usefulness of mapping disease-specific instruments onto utility measures. The specific issue of longitudinal validity is addressed, as mapping models derived from baseline patients need to be validated on post-therapy samples. The underestimation of post-treatment utilities in the present study, at least in more severe patients, warrants further research before it is prudent to conduct cost-utility analyses in the context of RA by means of the MHAQ alone.Obesity is known to be associated with a range of chronic medical comorbidities, but little is known about the impact of overweight and obesity on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in persons without chronic diseases. The aim of this study was to assess HRQoL, body mass index (BMI) and health behavior patterns in a community sample of subjects who had no long-lasting medical comorbiditiesWe assessed HRQoL in 1,187 apparently healthy individuals (mean age 57 ± 7 years), of whom 24 % were classified as normal weight, 49 % as overweight, 20 % as obese and 7 % as very obese. Two different instruments of HRQoL were used: the generic Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) questionnaire and the preference-based instrument EuroQol (EQ-5D).All physical components of the SF-36 decreased linearly according to BMI categories in women. In men, only poorer physical functioning scale showed linearity with rising BMI. Scores on the mental components of the SF-36 did not differ by BMI categories in either gender. The EQ-5D index and EuroQol visual analogue scale scores decreased linearly with rising BMI only in women.In apparently healthy middle-aged subjects, physical HRQoL decreases with increasing level of BMI and more so in women than in men. Mental components of HRQoL do not differ between the categories of BMI in either gender.The aim of the study was to demonstrate the effectiveness of sulphurous water in patients with osteoarthritis of the hand. Forty-seven patients with osteoarthritis of the hand were enrolled into the double-blind, randomized, controlled study, satisfying ACR criteria. One group of the patients (n = 24) received balneotherapy, bathing in sulphurous thermal water for 20 min per occasion, 15 times in all during a period of 3 weeks. The control group (n = 21) had a bath exclusively in warm tap water. Assessments were carried out in both groups on four occasions: at the beginning and at the end of the treatment, and 3 and 6 months after the beginning of the treatment. The parameters studied were the following: pain in the hand, morning stiffness in the joints, grip strength of both hands, and Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index (HAQ) and AUSCAN Hand Osteoarthritis Index and EuroQol quality of life questionnaire. At the end of treatment, the improvement was more pronounced in the patient group treated with the sulphurous water. After 3 months, significant improvement could be detected in all parameters, except the morning stiffness and EQ5D. After 6 months, the values of pain, HAQ and AUSCAN continued to be significantly better in comparison with the baseline values. The improvement in quality of life was significant only at the end of the treatment, 6 months later not any longer. The difference between the two groups was significant after 3 months in point of pain and EQVAS. Balneotherapy and within this the sulphurous spa water alone may be effective for the attenuation of pain in patients with hand osteoarthrosis.Knowledge of patient preferences is vital for delivering optimal healthcare. This study uses utility measurement to assess the preferences of heart failure (HF) patients regarding quality of life or longevity. The utility approach represents the perspective of a patient; facilitates the combination of mortality, morbidity, and treatment regimen into a single score; and makes it possible to compare the effects of different interventions in healthcare.Patient preferences of 100 patients with HF were assessed in interviews using the time trade-off (TTO) approach. Health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) was assessed with the EQ-5D and the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ). Patients' own estimation of life expectancy was assessed with a visual analogue scale (VAS). Of the 100 patients (mean age 70 ± 9 years; 71% male), 61% attach more weight to quality of life over longevity; while 9% and 14% were willing to trade 6 and 12 months, respectively, for perfect health and attach more weight to quality of life. Patients willing to trade time had a significantly higher level of NT-proBNP and reported significantly more dyspnoea during exertion. Predictors of willingness to trade time were higher NT-proBNP and lower EQ VAS.The majority of HF patients attach more weight to quality of life over longevity. There was no difference between both groups with respect to life expectancy described by the patients. These insights enable open and personalized discussions of patients' preferences in treatment and care decisions, and could guide the future development of more patient-centred care.This pilot study evaluates the outcome after occupational therapy, compared to home-based exercises in the conservative treatment of patients with full thickness rotator cuff tears.Forty-three adult subjects (range, 18-75 years), who had a full thickness rupture of the rotator cuff which was verified by magnetic imaging tomography, with clinical signs of a chronic rotator cuff impingement, and who were available for follow-up, were randomized to occupational therapy or to independent home-based exercises using a booklet. After drop-out, 38 patients were available for full examination at follow-up. Before therapy and after 2 months of conservative treatment, pain intensity, the Constant-Murley score, isokinetic strength testing in abduction and external rotation, functional limitation, clinical shoulder tests and health-related quality of life (EQ-5D) were evaluated.Two-thirds of the patients improved in clinical shoulder tests, regardless of the therapy group. There were no significant differences between the groups with reference to pain, range of motion, maximum peak force (abduction, external rotation), the Constant-Murley score, and the EQ-5D index. The only significant difference observed was the improvement in the self-assessed health- related quality of life (EQ-5D VAS) favoring home-based exercises.Home-based exercise, on the basis of an illustrated booklet with exercises twice a day, supplies comparable results to formal occupational therapy in the conservative treatment of rotator cuff tears. The results of this pilot study suggest some potential advantages related to psychological benefits using home-based treatment.Previous studies have documented ethnic differences in the utilization of total hip arthroplasty. Less is known if this operation is performed at the same stage of symptoms and has equal effects in patients with different ethnicity.We investigated whether patients born outside Sweden report equal effects of operation with the insertion of a total hip replacement in terms of EQ-5D, pain and overall satisfaction as those born in Sweden.Preoperative and 1-year postoperative data from Swedish Hip Arthroplasty Register, (1216 patients,1216 hips) with primary osteoarthritis of the hip operated between years 2002 and 2006, were analysed. All patients completed the EQ-5D form, filled in a VAS about pain preoperatively and at 1 year postoperatively, when a VAS about overall satisfaction was added.Before the operation and after adjustment for confounders, patients born abroad reported more problems (dichotomized into no or moderate/severe problems), with self-care (p = 0.01) and anxiety/depression (p = 0.02) in the EQ-5D form than those born in Sweden. They also had more pain (VAS, p = 0.04). One year after the operation and after statistical adjustments, patients born outside Sweden reported lower scores for self-care (p = 0.008) and usual activities (p = 0.001) in the EQ-5D form. They still reported more pain (VAS, p = 0.02), but no significant difference concerning degree of satisfaction (p = 0.3).Our finding of more preoperative disability and pain (VAS) before the operation in patients born abroad might depend on cultural differences, communication problems and differences in indications. Even if the effect of the total hip replacement was good, patients born abroad scored less for some of the items at 1 year. We think that this patient group could benefit from improved pre- and postoperative information and other measures to facilitate and improve their rehabilitation.Although several large observational studies have reported on psoriasis characteristics, very few have included severity assessments by dermatologists and validated health related quality of life measures.To describe psoriasis characteristics, clinical severity and their impact on quality of life of patients diagnosed with psoriasis by a dermatologist.From 2006 to 2007, 192 Belgian dermatologists examined psoriasis patients. Demographics, type of psoriasis, body sites affected, Psoriasis Area and Severity Index, Body Surface Area and Physician's Global Assessment were assessed. Patients answered questions concerning their psoriasis and completed the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), Skindex-17 and EQ-5D.Of the 3,629 psoriasis patients, more than three quarters had plaque psoriasis for more than 16 years. One fifth had nail involvement, 16% had affected genitals, 15% suffered from severe joint pain, 6.4% reported psoriatic arthritis diagnosed by a rheumatologist. Despite therapy, for 83% patients the clinical psoriasis severity was relatively high (mean PASI 8.5 and %BSA12). 40% of patients reported a substantial impact of psoriasis, according to the DLQI and Skindex-17 and the mean EQ-5D score was 0.76.Psoriasis patients consulting dermatologists present with relatively severe disease and often report a high impact on their physical and psychological well-being.The purpose of this study was to describe patient-related functional outcomes after fast-track total knee arthroplasty and unicompartmental knee arthroplasty. Furthermore, we wanted to assess physical areas where an additional need for rehabilitation could be identified, and finally, we wanted to describe the association between physical function, health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) and patient satisfaction.The study consisted of 211 consecutive fast-track patients of which none received additional rehabilitation beyond an instructional exercise plan at discharge, which was adjusted at one outpatient visit. The patients filled in 3 questionnaires (EQ-5D, SF36 and a disease-specific questionnaire) at 2 time points before the operation and 2 time points after the operation. The observed results were compared to normative population data for EQ-5D and SF36.Four months after the operation, the patients had reached a HRQOL level of 0.82 (SD 0.15), which was lower than the background population norm of 0.85 (n.s.), whereas it equaled the population norm at 12 months (n.s.). For SF36, physical function was 62.8 (SD 23.0) at 4 months and 66.2 (SD 24.1) at 12 months, which was lower than the background population norm of 75.0 (P < 0.01). No or mild pain and good function ability were associated with high HRQOL and patient satisfaction at follow-up.There seems to be an additional need for postoperative rehabilitation after fast-track total knee arthroplasty and unicompartmental knee arthroplasty regarding early functional outcome. No or mild pain and good functional abilities at 4 months are associated with high HRQOL and patient satisfaction at 4- and 12-month follow-up.II.Assessment of the cost utility (CU) of acute renal replacement therapy (RRT) from a societal perspective during a 5-year follow-up.This was a cross-sectional cohort study in a medical-surgical intensive care unit and an acute RRT unit of 410 consecutive patients treated with acute RRT in Helsinki University Hospital in 2000-2002. Five-year survival and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) were assessed and used to calculate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) in two ways. They were first calculated for the 5-year follow-up period and, second, estimated for the expected lifetime. HRQoL was assessed by the EuroQol (EQ-5D) in 2003. The cost analysis included hospital costs during index hospitalization along with hospital and societal costs for the following 5 years. The CU ratio was determined as total costs divided by gained QALYs.Median survival time for all patients was 0.20 years and the EQ-5D index score was 0.68, 0.18 lower than that of the age- and gender-matched general population. All RRT-treated patients gained 0.10 QALYs/patient and hospital survivors 2.54 QALYs in 5 years. Overall the CU ratio was poor [5 year median 271,116 (29,782-2,177,581) €/QALY]. However, it was acceptable (less than 50,000 €/QALY) in patients who survived for more than a year and did not need chronic RRT. Cost utility decreased with increasing age exceeding 1.0 million €QALY in the older groups.In general, the CU ratio of acute RRT is poor. However, it is acceptable in patients with renal recovery who survive for more than 1 year.Measuring value in medicine is an increasingly important issue as healthcare spending continues to rise and cost containment becomes even more important. However, value assessments can be affected by patient factors and comorbidities.We therefore quantified the approximate value of total hip arthroplasty and determined if patient age and Charnley classification affected the EuroQol5D (EQ5D) after hip arthroplasty.Using charge data and an institutional joint registry, we evaluated 1442 patients after hip arthroplasty. Using the Charnley case-mix index to define bilateral disease and age of 65 years to distinguish between elderly and young patients, statistical comparisons were made among all groups. We obtained subspecialty physician charges and hospital charges.Patients with both unilateral and bilateral disease in both age groups had improved EQ5D scores after total hip arthroplasty, and the average change in scores was 0.27. There was no difference in the change in utility scores when patients older than 65 years of age were compared with patients younger than 65 years or when patients with unilateral disease were compared with those with bilateral disease. The average cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained was $9773/QALY.Our data suggest the value of total hip arthroplasty compares favorably with other medical and surgical interventions for other patient groups. No adjustments for patient age or disease status of the contralateral limb are necessary when reporting the value of total hip arthroplasty.Level IV, economic and decision analyses study. See Guidelines for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.Compared to an abundance of data on surgical techniques for degenerative spine conditions and the outcomes thereof, little is available to guide optimal perioperative pain management after spinal surgery. The aim of this study was to survey patterns of perioperative pain management after spinal surgery and to investigate the effects of perioperative pain management, such as pre-emptive analgesia and multi-modal postoperative pain management, on acute postoperative satisfaction, pain reduction, and health-related quality of life in patients undergoing spinal surgery.Non-blind multicenter prospective observational clinical series.Seventeen tertiary hospitals (14 hospitals attached to medical colleges and 3 general hospitals).Pain management protocols of 393 patients (153 men, 240 women; mean age of 67 years, ranging from 21 to 91 years) from 17 tertiary hospitals after spinal surgery for degenerative spine disease were evaluated using a self-administered questionnaire.A total of 79 (20%) patients received pre-emptive analgesics, which included cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, with or without administration of anticonvulsants, immediately before surgery at the time of antibiotic prophylaxis. Postoperative pain was managed mainly by multi-modal therapy (363 cases, 92%), along with various combinations of patient controlled anesthesia (PCA), conventional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), COX-2 inhibitors, and narcotics. Self-reported levels of pain were not significantly different among postoperative multiple modalities of pain management, but were different significantly for pre-emptive pain management regimens (P < 0.05, independent t-test). The number of patients that reported the self-administrative use of PCA was higher in the no pre-emptive pain management group compared to the pre-emptive group (P < 0.05). In regards to EQ-5D usual activity, depression/anxiety and self-care improved significantly in the pre-emptive pain management group when measured at 2 weeks postoperative (P < 0.05).The limitation of our study is that it is not a randomized controlled observational study.Pre-emptive analgesia and multi-modal pain management after spinal surgery may lead to better health-related quality of life, greater patient satisfaction, and less postoperative pain.To examine the measurement properties of and comparability between the English and Chinese versions of the five-level EuroQoL Group's five-dimension questionnaire (EQ-5D) in breast cancer patients in Singapore.This is an observational study of 269 patients. Known-group validity and responsiveness of the EQ-5D utility index and visual analog scale (VAS) were assessed in relation to various clinical characteristics and longitudinal change in performance status, respectively. Convergent and divergent validity was examined by correlation coefficients between the EQ-5D and a breast cancer-specific instrument. Test-retest reliability was evaluated. The two language versions were compared by multiple regression analyses.For both English and Chinese versions, the EQ-5D utility index and VAS demonstrated known-group validity and convergent and divergent validity, and presented sufficient test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation = 0.72 to 0.83). The English version was responsive to changes in performance status. The Chinese version was responsive to decline in performance status, but there was no conclusive evidence about its responsiveness to improvement in performance status. In the comparison analyses of the utility index and VAS between the two language versions, borderline results were obtained, and equivalence cannot be definitely confirmed.The five-level EQ-5D is valid, responsive, and reliable in assessing health outcome of breast cancer patients. The English and Chinese versions provide comparable measurement results.To evaluate effects of a multifactorial fall prevention program on fall incidence and physical function in community-dwelling older adults.Multicenter randomized controlled trial.Three medical centers and adjacent community health centers.Community-dwelling older adults (N=616) who have fallen in the previous year or are at risk of falling.After baseline assessment, eligible subjects were randomly allocated into the intervention group (IG) or the control group (CG), stratified by the Physiological Profile Assessment (PPA) fall risk level. The IG received a 3-month multifactorial intervention program including 8 weeks of exercise training, health education, home hazards evaluation/modification, along with medication review and ophthalmology/other specialty consults. The CG received health education brochures, referrals, and recommendations without direct exercise intervention.Primary outcome was fall incidence within 1 year. Secondary outcomes were PPA battery (overall fall risk index, vision, muscular strength, reaction time, balance, and proprioception), Timed Up & Go (TUG) test, Taiwan version of the International Physical Activity Questionnaire, EuroQol-5D, Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS), and the Falls Efficacy Scale-International at 3 months after randomization.Participants were 76±7 years old and included low risk 25.6%, moderate risk 25.6%, and marked risk 48.7%. The cumulative 1-year fall incidence was 25.2% in the IG and 27.6% in the CG (hazard ratio=.90; 95% confidence interval, .66-1.23). The IG improved more favorably than the CG on overall PPA fall risk index, reaction time, postural sway with eyes open, TUG test, and GDS, especially for those with marked fall risk.The multifactorial fall prevention program with exercise intervention improved functional performance at 3 months for community-dwelling older adults with risk of falls, but did not reduce falls at 1-year follow-up. Fall incidence might have been decreased simultaneously in both groups by heightened awareness engendered during assessments, education, referrals, and recommendations.The aim of this study was to examine the impact of the most prevalent comorbid chronic diseases in hypertensives on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in the general representative Korean population using the EuroQOL-5D (EQ-5D) and to assess this impact by sex and after controlling for sociodemographic factors. The effects of hypertension and comorbidity on HRQOL were examined using multiple linear regression models with Fourth Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey data. In a total of 5736 adults, the prevalence of hypertension alone was 20.8%, and the prevalence rates of hypertension comorbid with diabetes mellitus (DM), cardiovascular disease (CVD), and musculoskeletal (MS) disease were 9.5%, 3.8%, and 33.5%, respectively. Females with hypertension and other comorbidity showed worse HRQOL scores, with the exception of hypertension and CVD, where males scored worse for HRQOL. After adjustment, subjects with comorbid DM, CVD, or MS experienced EQ-5D scores decreasing by 0.01, 0.09, and 0.05, respectively. Since comorbidity impairs HRQOL in hypertensives, health providers should consider comorbid diseases in hypertensives when developing methods of intervention to effectively manage hypertension.We aimed; 1) to determine the validity of the EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D) for the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of Korean patients with type 2 diabetes, and 2) to identify associated factors of the HRQOL of these patients. Follow-up surveys were conducted for consecutive patients with type 2 diabetes. HRQOL was assessed using the EQ-5D and the Short Form-36 (SF-36). The validity of EQ-5D was assessed with the perspectives of known group, convergent and discriminant validity. Additionally, a linear mixed model using a backward elimination was used for identify associated factors. Of the 1,072 patients included in the first survey, 858 (80.0%) completed the questionnaires in the follow-up. In the known group validity, the problem rates in each EQ-5D dimension were highest among women, elderly people, and less-educated subjects. The Spearman's ρ between the EQ-5D and the SF-36 scales were larger in the comparable dimensions than those in the less comparable dimensions. In the final model, we found that sex, age, education, body mass index, atrial fibrillation, stroke, and retinopathy were statistically significant. Our data suggest that the EQ-5D is a valid tool for Korean patients with type 2 diabetes and that various factors could affect their HRQOL.An association between metabolic syndrome and impaired health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is still controversial. We investigated the association between metabolic syndrome in itself and HRQoL in the Korean adult population.The study is a cross-sectional analysis of 8,941 adults ≥19 years of age who participated in the 2007 and 2008 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. EuroQoL five-dimension (EQ-5D), the EQ-5D index and the EQ visual analogue scale (EQ VAS) were used to assess HRQoL.The prevalence of metabolic syndrome was 26.2%. Compared to the participants without metabolic syndrome, those with metabolic syndrome were older and comprised a higher proportion of men. Moreover, participants with metabolic syndrome were more likely to have a lower education level, to be current smokers, to have activity limitation and to have more frequent metabolic abnormalities and comorbidities. Metabolic syndrome was associated with HRQoL based on EQ-5D and EQ VAS in simple regression analysis. However, metabolic syndrome was not significantly associated with HRQoL after adjusting for age, sex, smoking status, income, education level, marital status, obesity, diabetes mellitus, stroke, history of heart disease and chronic kidney disease for EQ-5D, and in addition history of depression for EQ VAS.Metabolic syndrome in itself was not associated with impaired HRQoL after adjusting for confounding variables such as socio-demographic factors, medical comorbidities and obesity.EuroQoL-5 dimension (EQ-5D) is a standardised preference-based tool for measurement of health-related quality of life and EQ-5D utility values can be converted to quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) to aid cost-utility analysis. This study aimed to evaluate the EQ-5D utility values of 639 patients with primary Sjögren's syndrome (PSS) in the UK.Prospective data collected using a standardised pro forma were compared with UK normative data. Relationships between utility values and the clinical and laboratory features of PSS were explored.The proportion of patients with PSS reporting any problem in mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression were 42.2%, 16.7%, 56.6%, 80.6% and 49.4%, respectively, compared with 5.4%, 1.6%, 7.9%, 30.2% and 15.7% for the UK general population. The median EQ-5D utility value was 0.691 (IQR 0.587-0.796, range -0.239 to 1.000) with a bimodal distribution. Bivariate correlation analysis revealed significant correlations between EQ-5D utility values and many clinical features of PSS, but most strongly with pain, depression and fatigue (R values>0.5). After adjusting for age and sex differences, multiple regression analysis identified pain and depression as the two most important predictors of EQ-5D utility values, accounting for 48% of the variability. Anxiety, fatigue and body mass index were other statistically significant predictors, but they accounted for <5% in variability.This is the first report on the EQ-5D utility values of patients with PSS. These patients have significantly impaired utility values compared with the UK general population. EQ-5D utility values are significantly related to pain and depression scores in PSS.To compare EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and Short Form-6D (SF-6D) utility scores in multiethnic Asian patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA).Consecutive patients fulfilling the Classification Criteria for Psoriatic Arthritis attending a rheumatology outpatient clinic were recruited and completed the EQ-5D and SF-6D questionnaires. Comparisons were performed by score distribution, mean, median, and the Outcome Measures in Rheumatology filter: i.e., truth, discrimination, and feasibility.Eighty-six patients were enrolled (69 English-speaking and 17 Chinese-speaking; male:female ratio 0.91). The score distribution of SF-6D was normal, while that of EQ-5D was bimodal. A ceiling effect was observed in 20% of patients for EQ-5D and none for SF-6D. There were moderate correlations (Spearman's rho = 0.59, p < 0.0001) between the 2 scores, but poor agreements on scatterplot, intraclass correlation (ICC 0.43 and standardized ICC 0.21), and Bland-Altman plots. EQ-5D generated lower utility scores than SF-6D in the poorer health subgroup. SF-6D had stronger correlation with the general health status and other external measures of health; and it distinguished better between good and poor general health status, with better effect size and relative efficiency statistics. EQ-5D demonstrated higher patient acceptability.EQ-5D and SF-6D instruments generated different utility scores in PsA. SF-6D may be superior because of normal scaling distribution and the absence of ceiling and floor effects. SF-6D also had better construct validity and better discrimination of poor health status. More studies are required for cost-utility analysis in PsA.The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of ticagrelor versus clopidogrel on health-related quality of life in the PLATelet inhibition and patient Outcomes (PLATO) trial.The PLATO trial showed that ticagrelor was superior to clopidogrel for the prevention of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, or stroke in a broad population of patients with acute coronary syndromes.HRQOL in the PLATO study was measured at hospital discharge, 6-month visit, and end of treatment (anticipated at 12 months) by using the EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) questionnaire. All patients who had an EQ-5D questionnaire assessment at discharge from the index hospitalization (n = 15,212) were included in the study. Patients who died prior to the end-of-treatment visit were assigned an EQ-5D questionnaire value of 0.The EQ-5D questionnaire value at discharge among 7631 patients assigned to ticagrelor was 0.847 and among 7581 patients assigned to clopidogrel was 0.846 (P = 0.71). At 12 months, the mean EQ-5D questionnaire value was 0.840 for ticagrelor and 0.832 for clopidogrel (P = 0.046). Excluding patients who died resulted in mean EQ-5D questionnaire values of 0.864 among ticagrelor patients and 0.863 among clopidogrel patients (P = 0.69).In patients hospitalized with acute coronary syndromes with or without ST-segment elevation, treatment with ticagrelor was associated with a lower mortality but otherwise no difference in quality of life relative to treatment with clopidogrel. The improved survival and reduction in cardiovascular events with ticagrelor are therefore obtained with no loss in quality of life.The Seattle Heart Failure Model (SHFM) is a well validated prediction model of all-cause mortality in patients with heart failure, but its relationship with generic health status measures has not been evaluated. We sought to investigate relationships between SHFM scores and health utility weights, which are necessary to estimate quality-adjusted life-years in cost-effectiveness analyses.We applied mixed linear regression to examine relationships between baseline SHFM scores and EQ-5D-derived health utilities collected longitudinally in a large clinical trial. A 1-unit increase in SHFM score (higher predicted mortality) was associated with a 0.030 decrease in utility (P < .001) and an additional 0.006 decrease per year (P < .001). With SHFM score modeled as a categorical variable, EQ-5D utilities for patients with rounded SHFM scores of 1 or 2 were significantly lower (-0.041 and -0.053, respectively; both P < .001) and declined more rapidly over time (-0.011 and -0.020, respectively; both P ≤ .004) than for patients with scores of -1.Patients with higher SHFM-predicted mortality had significantly lower health utilities at baseline and greater rates of decline over time, compared with patients with lower SHFM-predicted mortality. These relationships can be applied when examining the cost-effectiveness of heart failure interventions.Trials have not assessed the effect of dalfampridine-extended release (dalfampridine-ER) on health utility. We sought to evaluate the effect of dalfampridine-ER tablets (prolonged-release fampridine in Europe) on health utility in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) by mapping subjects' individual item scores from the 12-Item Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale (MSWS-12) onto the Euroqol 5-Dimension (EQ-5D) health utility index.Data from study MS-F203, a randomized trial of dalfampridine-ER tablets, 10 mg twice daily, in patients with MS, were used to calculate the health utility scores with two MSWS-12 to EQ-5D mapping equations (one derived in a North American [NA] registry, the other a United Kingdom [UK] registry). MS-F203 participants were categorized as dalfampridine-ER 20%-responders (achieving ≥20% improvement on the Timed 25-Foot Walk), dalfampridine-ER 20%-nonresponders (<20% improvement), or placebo patients. Mean change in health utility scores from baseline to each double-blind treatment evaluation (visits 3-6 occurring at post-randomization weeks 2, 6, 10, and 14) and each off-drug follow-up evaluation (visits 7-8 occurring at weeks 16 and 18) were calculated and reported as effect sizes (ESs).Using the NA-derived equation, dalfampridine-ER 20%-responders demonstrated improvement in health utility vs. placebo; starting at week 6 (mean difference in ES = 0.44, p = 0.002) and maintained at weeks 10 (ES = 0.41, p = 0.01) and 14 (ES = 0.71, p < 0.001). These improvements were no longer evident after dalfampridine-ER was discontinued (p > 0.05 at weeks 16 and 18). Dalfampridine-ER 20%-nonresponders did not show improvement vs. placebo at any visit (p > 0.05 for all). When using the UK-derived equation, improvement was seen in dalfampridine-ER 20%-responders vs. placebo at weeks 2, 6, 10, and 14 (ESs = 0.49, 0.55, 0.59, and 0.99; p < 0.03 for all), but not when dalfampridine-ER was discontinued (weeks 16 and 18; p > 0.05 for both). Dalfampridine-ER 20%-nonresponders showed no improvement at any visit (p > 0.05 for all).Regardless of the equation used, dalfampridine-ER response was associated with an improvement in health utility.Using the UK National Health Service's Patient Reported Outcome Measures data, we examined the magnitude of changes and relationship among the EQ-5D index, EQ-5D Visual Analog Scale (EQ-VAS), and Oxford Knee Score (OKS) in patients undergoing knee replacement.Patients undergoing knee replacements in 2009-2011 completed the EQ-5D and OKS before and after surgery. Responsiveness was compared using the standardized response mean (SRM). Stratified analyses based on change scores in the OKS were utilized to investigate how changes in the outcome measures related to each other. Patients were grouped based on the preoperative OKS to examine the relationship of change in the EQ-5D index and EQ-VAS with respect to initial health status.For the overall cohort (54,486 patients), mean change scores pre/post knee replacement were 0.30 for the EQ-5D index (SD 0.33; SRM = 0.90), 3.3 for the EQ-VAS (SD 21.0; SRM = 0.16), and 14.9 for the OKS (SD 9.9; SRM = 1.50). The OKS changed uniformly with the EQ-5D index, but less concordantly with the EQ-VAS in response to knee replacement surgery. Substantial functional improvement was needed before mean EQ-VAS change scores showed improvement. Patients with worse preoperative health status had greater improvement following surgery, but the improvement in the EQ-5D index did not necessarily translate into comparable improvement in self-perceived well-being measured by the EQ-VAS.On average, patients self-rated their health systematically lower using the EQ-VAS compared to the EQ-5D index and OKS following knee replacement. The EQ-VAS captured information about how patients feel about their health pre-/post-surgical intervention that contrasted with more functional measures of health. Additional qualitative research is needed to better understand these differences.The purpose was to investigate risk factors for postoperative stiffness and long-term outcome following manipulation under anaesthesia (MUA). In one of the five Danish regions, all patients in a 4-year period who received MUA following total knee arthroplasty (N=36) were included in two case-control studies. Data on potential risk factors were extracted from the Danish Knee arthroplasty Register and from a postal questionnaire including long-term outcome measures regarding pain, function and quality of life (Oxford Knee Score and EQ-5D). Previous knee surgery and a high preoperative Knee Society Function Score were significant risk factors, whereas attending a preoperative information meeting was associated with a significantly decreased risk of postoperative stiffness requiring MUA (P<0.001). The long-term results following MUA (1-5 years) were equivalent to patients without postoperative stiffness.Diabetic Macular Edema (DME) is a common cause of impaired vision and blindness amongst diabetics. If not detected and treated early, the resulting vision loss can lead to considerable health costs and decreased health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The aim of this study was to provide evidence of the psychometric properties of the National Eye Institute - Visual Functioning Questionnaire (VFQ-25) for use in a cohort of DME patients who participated in a clinical efficacy and safety trial of pegaptinib sodium (Macugen).A phase 2/3 randomised, double masked trial evaluated pegaptanib injection versus sham injection in patients with DME. The analysis was conducted using baseline HRQoL data of the VFQ-25 and the EQ-5D, on a modified intent-to-treat sample of 235 patients. These measures were administered by a trained interviewer by telephone in all but one of the study countries, where face-to-face interviews were conducted in the clinic. The measures were completed in the week prior to baseline, and after 54 weeks of treatment. Distance visual acuity, measured according to the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS), was assessed at all time points. Psychometric properties of the VFQ-25 assessed included domain structure, reliability, concurrent and construct validity, responsiveness.The VFQ-25 was found to consist of 11 domains slightly different than those proposed. Nevertheless, none of the eight established multi-item scales met the criterion for further splitting and the VFQ-25 was scored as in the developers' instructions. Internal consistency reliability was demonstrated for six out of the eight original multi-item scales, with Cronbach's alpha ranging from 0.58 (Distance Activities) to 0.85 (Vision Specific: Dependency). The VFQ-25 domains generally showed a low to moderate correlation with EQ-5D visual analogue scale (range 0.16-0.43) and with the visual acuity score (range 0.10-0.41). Construct validity was upheld with higher VFQ-25 scores for patients who saw more letters according to the ETDRS. Almost all scales were shown to be responsive with Guyatt's statistic ranging from 0.10 to 0.56 at 54 weeks.The VFQ-25 has evidence to support its validity and reliability for measuring HRQoL in DME. However, some operating characteristics of the instrument need further consideration and discussion in the case of DME patients. Further research is therefore warranted in this indication.To evaluate the perceived health status of elderly patients with insomnia, whether primary, secondary to a medical illness, or associated with another mental disorder.We conducted a cross-sectional study in a representative sample of 926 persons aged over 65 years. A psychiatric interview was used to verify the presence of insomnia (DSM-IV-TR, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth ed., revised text). Interviews were conducted by health professionals to assess perceived health status (EuroQol-5D), health problems, and socio-demographic characteristics.The prevalence of primary insomnia was 8.9% (95% CI: 7.1-11.0), that of insomnia associated with another mental disorder was 9.3% (95% CI: 7.5-11.4) and that of insomnia secondary to medical illness was 7.0% (95% CI: 5.4-8.9). Patients with insomnia who used hypnotics/sedatives scored lower in self-reported health (57.6; 95% CI: 53.7-61.4), significantly lower (p<0.05) than participants with insomnia not taking these drugs (65.1; 95% CI: 53.7-61.4). The mean health status score in individuals without insomnia was 0.87 and was significantly lower (p<0.05) in persons with any type of insomnia: 0.80 in primary insomnia, 0.73 in insomnia secondary to a mental disorder and 0.76 in insomnia associated with medical illness.Health status was worse in older people with insomnia, whether primary, secondary to other mental illnesses or organic, and when the elderly patients consumed hypnotics/sedatives. Limitations were less severe in primary insomnia.Cardiovascular risk management plays an important role in primary care. In patients at high risk for cardiovascular diseases (CVD) lifestyle and, where appropriate, medical interventions are recommended in guidelines. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is an important outcome in clinical practice. This study aimed to assess the HRQoL of this patient group and to investigate the impact of both patients' characteristics and practice quality scores on their assessments of HRQoL.An observational study in 218 general practices from 8 European countries was conducted. 2142 patients at risk for CVD (33.5% female) with a mean age of 66.3 (SD 9.1) years completed a questionnaire including the EQ-5D instrument and provided data from medical record. Validated quality indicators of general practices were assessed using practice questionnaires and face-to-face interviews. A hierarchical multilevel analysis was performed to identify predictors of EQ-5D scores at patient and practice level. The mean EQ-5D score was 0.78 (SD 0.19). Female gender (r=-0.03, p<0.0016), age (r=-0.01, p=0.0387) and lower educational level (r=-0.03, p<0.0001) were correlated negatively with EQ-5D scores. Clinically more important was the correlation of HRQoL with the frequency of practice contacts (r=-0.12, p<0.0001) and the number of uncontrolled risk factors (r= -0.01, p<0.0039). Medication adherence (r=0.032, p<0.0001), and physical activity (r=0.02, p<0.0001) were identified as positive predictors of HRQoL. The EUPROPEP-score category 'organization' (r=0.02, p<0.0001) was positively related to EQ-5D scores, whereas other practice scores were not correlated to EQ-5D-scores.In patients at risk for CVD, good medication adherence, regular physical activity, controlling of biomedical risk factor levels and patient-centered practice organization have been shown to be positively correlated to HRQoL and should therefore be targeted in interventions not only to reduce morbidity but also to sustain or even to ameliorate HRQoL.This paper provides an analysis on the use of 15D and EQ-5D to measure health related quality of life. Measures like these are often used interchangeably in cost-effectiveness studies. However, it is unclear whether they measure the same level of health in the same patients. The empirical performance of the two multi-attribute utility instruments is tested in terms of feasibility, utility score, linear relationship and agreement by using a novel Norwegian data set. The paper also includes an analysis of how the instruments rank individuals in terms of health status, and their discriminatory power are tested. The results show that EQ-5D and 15D should not be used interchangeably in economic evaluations. EQ-5D is likely to give a more favourable cost utility ratio than 15D. The utility scores generated from the two instruments differ significantly different from each other, even though they correlate well. The instruments also rank individuals in terms of health status differently.Electronic data capture technologies, such as interactive voice response (IVR) systems, are emerging as important alternatives for collecting patient-reported outcome data.The objective of this study was to assess the test-retest reliability of an IVR version of the EQ-5D.Outpatient cancer clinic patients (n = 127) were asked to complete the IVR-based EQ-5D twice, 2 days apart. The analyses tested for mean differences (paired t-test) and test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]) to assess measurement stability over time. Equivalence of the means was established if the 95% confidence interval (CI) was within the minimally important difference (MID) interval; namely -0.035 to 0.035 for the EQ-5D index and -3.0 to 3.0 for the visual analog scale (i.e. EQ VAS). Adequacy of the ICC was established by testing whether it differed from a value of 0.70.Both administrations were completed per protocol by 114 subjects (EQ-5D index) and 110 subjects (EQ VAS). For the EQ-5D index, the means (SD) of the first and second administrations were 0.871 (0.14) and 0.871 (0.15), respectively. The 95% CI of the mean difference was -0.013, 0.013, within the equivalence interval. The ICC was 0.876 (95% lower bound of 0.826) and was significantly different from 0.70. The EQ VAS means (SD) were 81.3 (17.5) and 80.8 (17.5), respectively. The 95% CI of the mean difference was -0.598, 1.617, within the equivalence interval. The EQ VAS ICC was 0.944 (95% lower bound of 0.919) and was significantly greater than 0.70.This analysis provides substantial evidence that the scores obtained from the IVR version of the EQ-5D are reliable upon repeated administrations.Existing evidence for validity of the visual analog scale of the EQ-5D-3L questionnaire (EQ-VAS) is weak in Chinese-speaking respondents in Singapore. We therefore investigated the validity of the Chinese (Singapore) version of EQ-VAS in patients with diabetes.In a cross-sectional survey, patients with type 2 diabetes seen in a primary care facility completed an identical Chinese or English questionnaire containing the EQ-5D-3L and questions assessing other health and disease-related characteristics. Convergent and known-groups validity of the EQ-VAS was examined for Chinese- and English-speaking respondents separately.The EQ-VAS was correlated with the EQ-5D-3L health index and a 5-point Likert-type scale for assessing global health in both Chinese-speaking (N = 335) and English-speaking respondents (N = 298), suggesting convergent validity. The mean EQ-VAS scores differed between English-speaking patients with differing duration of diabetes (< 10 years versus ≥ 10 years), comorbidity status (absence versus presence), and complications of diabetes (absence versus presence), providing evidence for known-groups validity. However, the EQ-VAS scores for Chinese-speaking respondents known to differ in these characteristics were similar, even among subgroups of relatively younger patients or those with formal school education.Chinese- and English-speaking Singaporeans respond differently to the EQ-VAS. The Chinese version of EQ-VAS appears less sensitive than its English version for measuring global health in patient populations in Singapore.In this analysis of data from a large clinical trial in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, the impact of angiographic vasospasm (aVSP) on specific patient outcomes and inpatient healthcare resource use was assessed.This was a post hoc analysis of exploratory end points collected for 409 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage in the Clazosentan to Overcome Neurological Ischemia and Infarction Occurring After Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (CONSCIOUS-1) trial. Central reviewers graded severity of aVSP as none, mild, moderate, or severe based on comparison of catheter angiograms obtained at baseline and 7 to 11 days after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Assessments of cognitive status (Mini-Mental State Examination) and patient-relevant outcomes (EuroQol total score and visual analog scale and Functional Status Examination) were administered at Week 12. The relationship between severity of aVSP and these end points as well as inpatient healthcare resource use (intensive care, general ward, and total hospital lengths of stay) was assessed using univariate and multivariate analyses.Cognitive status and all patient-relevant outcome measures varied significantly (P<0.0001) with severity of aVSP (mean for severe aVSP versus no aVSP, respectively: Mini-Mental State Examination, 18.0 versus 27.6; EuroQol total, 0.38 versus 0.74; EuroQol visual analog scale, 50.9 versus 75.5; Functional Status Examination, 20.5 versus 11.7). A significant inverse relationship with severity of aVSP was observed for total hospital days (P=0.008) and days in the intensive care unit (P<0.0001). On average, patients with severe aVSP stayed in the hospital 5 days longer than those with no aVSP.Severe aVSP is associated with poor cognition, worse patient-relevant outcomes, and greater inpatient healthcare resource use. Future studies assessing new aVSP treatments should include outcome measures that evaluate quality of recovery among survivors.This study aimed to test whether group-based rehabilitation focusing on strength training, education and self-management is more effective than individual, supervised home-training after fast-track total knee arthroplasty (TKA).We allocated 80 participants undergoing primary TKA to either group-based rehabilitation or individual, supervised home-training (40 participants in each group). The group-based rehabilitation consisted of 12 outpatient visits during six weeks including strength and endurance exercises, education and self-management combined with home exercises. The primary outcome was Oxford Knee Score; secondary outcomes were EuroQoL-5 Dimensions QoL and Physical Function of the Medical Outcomes Short Form 36. Tertiary outcomes were pain, knee range of motion, tandem test, Leg Extensor Power, 10-m walking test, 30-sec. and five-times sit-to-stand. Outcomes were assessed four weeks, three months and six months after surgery. In addition, the questionnaires were completed before surgery.We found no difference in gain of function or quality of life between the two groups at three and six months follow-up.Individual, supervised home-training and group-based rehabilitation programmes improved patients' quality of life and physical function equally six months after TKA.This study was funded by Holstebro Municipality, Region of Central Jutland, and Lundbeck Centre for Fast-Track Hip and Knee Surgery.The study was registered in the Danish Data Protection Agency (Registration no.: 1-16-02-41-10) and Clinical Trials (Registration no.: KL24621).Studies from the balloon angioplasty and bare metal stent eras have demonstrated that coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is cost-effective compared with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for patients undergoing multivessel coronary revascularization-particularly among patients with complex coronary artery disease or diabetes mellitus. Whether these results apply in the drug-eluting stent (DES) era is unknown.Between 2005 and 2010, 1900 patients with diabetes mellitus and multivessel coronary artery disease were randomized to PCI with DES (DES-PCI; n=953) or CABG (n=947). Costs were assessed from the perspective of the U.S. health care system. Health state utilities were assessed using the EuroQOL 5 dimension 3 level questionnaire. A patient-level microsimulation model based on U.S. life-tables and in-trial results was used to estimate lifetime cost-effectiveness. Although initial procedural costs were lower for CABG, total costs for the index hospitalization were $8622 higher per patient. Over the next 5 years, follow-up costs were higher with PCI, owing to more frequent repeat revascularization and higher outpatient medication costs. Nonetheless, cumulative 5-year costs remained $3641 higher per patient with CABG. Although there were only modest gains in survival with CABG during the trial period, when the in-trial results were extended to a lifetime horizon, CABG was projected to be economically attractive relative to DES-PCI, with substantial gains in both life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios <$10 000 per life-year or quality-adjusted life-year gained across a broad range of assumptions regarding the effect of CABG on post-trial survival and costs.Despite higher initial costs, CABG is a highly cost-effective revascularization strategy compared with DES-PCI for patients with diabetes mellitus and multivessel coronary artery disease.URL: http://www.clinical-trials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00086450.Major behavioural risk factors, namely obesity, alcohol consumption, smoking, lack of fruit and vegetable intake and physical inactivity negatively impact on self-reported quality of life. However, little is known about their impact on preference-based measures of health-related quality of life commonly used to inform economic evaluations.Preference-based health-related quality of life outcomes associated with major behavioural risk factors were estimated using the EuroQol EQ-5D responses of 14 117 participants, aged ≥16 years, in the 2008 Health Survey for England. Multivariable linear regression was used to model the relationship between the five risk factors and EQ-5D utility scores. In addition, logistic regression was used to model their relationship to dichotomous reports of problems for each of the five EQ-5D dimensions.Only one-third of participants had a body mass index within normal range, never drank alcohol, consumed at least five portions of fruit or vegetable/day or exercised regularly, while nearly half of participants were smokers or ex-smokers. In the fully adjusted multivariable analyses, reductions in EQ-5D utility scores (95% CI) of 0.105 (0.072 to 0.137), 0.062 (0.042 to 0.082) and 0.142 (0.129 to 0.155) were estimated for a body mass index ≥40 kg/m(2), heavy smoking (≥20 cigarettes/day) and physical inactivity, respectively. Hazardous alcohol consumption (men >4 and ≤8 units/day; women >3 and ≤6 units/day) and daily fruit and vegetable intake between three and less than five portions were associated with small positive effects on EQ-5D utility scores (p<0.05).The high prevalence and substantial utility loss associated with obesity, smoking and physical inactivity highlight the potential impact that interventions aimed at their prevention or alleviation may have on population health.Treatment of aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) demands high healthcare resource utilization. Case fatality and disability remain as common outcomes of SAH. The purpose of this study was to perform a treatment cost-effectiveness analysis of patients with SAH.We performed a long-term follow-up of the SAH patients treated in our institution over a 3-year period starting February 1998. Outcome 10 years after the SAH and treatment costs were evaluated. The health-related quality of life was evaluated using the EuroQol (EQ-5D) questionnaire and visual-analogue scale (VAS). The cost of a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) was calculated.Median follow-up time of the 178 patients was 10.8 years. Overall mortality rate was 24%. Of the 43 non-survivors, 42% died within 6 months. For the 135 survivors, the median EQ-5D index value was 1.00, which is similar to that for normal population. The median VAS value was 80, which is comparable to normal population's value. Of the survivors, 88% (119/135) were able to live at home and 63% (85/135) returned to work after SAH. The cost of neurosurgical treatment for one QALY was 1700€.Long-term outcome of survivors after aneurysmal SAH was relatively good: most of them lived at home, 63% had returned to work and 36% were still working. The quality of life index of the survivors was similar to that of normal populations, and the survivors were as satisfied with their health as people in general are. Cost of neurosurgical treatment and cost of a QALY gained were acceptable.pulsed electromagnetic fields treatment might improve symptoms in the early stage of spontaneous osteonecrosis of the knee.Twenty-eight patients (19M/9F, age 49.8±16.4 years) suffering from symptomatic (pain) Koshino stage I spontaneous osteonecrosis of the knee, confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were treated with local pulsed electromagnetic fields therapy (6 h daily for 90 days). Clinical evaluation: baseline, 6- and 24-month follow-up by VAS for pain, knee society score (KSS), Tegner and EQ-5D scales. MRI evaluation: baseline and 6-month follow-up, measuring bone marrow lesion's areas and grading these lesions by WORMS score. Failures: patients undergoing knee arthroplasty.Pain significantly reduced at 6 months (from 73.2±20.7 to 29.6±21.3, p<0.0001), which remained almost unchanged at final follow-up (27.0±25.1). KSS significantly increased in first 6 months (from 34.0±13.3 to 76.1±15.9, p<0.0001) and was slightly reduced at final follow-up (72.5±13.5, p=0.0044). Tegner median level increased from baseline to 6-month follow-up (1(1-1) and 3(3-4), respectively, p<0.0001) and remained stable. EQ-5D improved significantly throughout the 24 months (0.32±0.33, baseline; 0.74±0.23, 6-month follow-up (p<0.0001); 0.86±0.15, 24-month follow-up (p=0.0071)). MRI evaluation: significant reduction of total WORMS mean score (p<0.0001) and mean femoral bone marrow lesion's area (p<0.05). This area reduction was present in 85% and was correlated to WORMS grading both for femur, tibia and total joint (p<0.05). Four failures (14.3%) at 24-month follow-up.Pulsed electromagnetic fields stimulation significantly reduced knee pain and necrosis area in Koshino stage I spontaneous osteonecrosis of the knee already in the first 6 months, preserving 86% of knees from prosthetic surgery at 24-month follow-up. No correlation was found between MRI and clinical scores.Level IV; case series.Intramedullary nailing is commonly recommended as the treatment of choice for transverse/reverse oblique trochanteric (AO/OTA type A3=intertrochanteric) and subtrochanteric fractures. However, only to a limited extent is this approach supported by superior results in well designed clinical trials, and the sliding hip screw (SHS) is still a frequently used implant for these fractures. The aim of the present study was to compare IM nails and SHS in the treatment of transverse/reverse oblique trochanteric and subtrochanteric fractures using data from the Norwegian Hip Fracture Register (NHFR).Data on 2716 operations for acute transverse/reverse oblique trochanteric or subtrochanteric fractures were collected from the NHFR from 2005 to 2010. Surgeons reported patient characteristics and details from initial surgery and reoperations, and patients answered questionnaires about pain, satisfaction, and quality of life (EQ-5D) 4, 12, and 36 months postoperatively. Reoperation rates were calculated using Kaplan-Meier analyses. Primary outcome measures were pain (Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)), satisfaction (VAS), quality of life (EQ-5D), and reoperation rates at one year.The treatment groups were similar regarding age, gender, ASA-class, cognitive impairment, and preoperative EQ-5Dindex score. At one year reoperation rates were 6.4% and 3.8% for SHS and IM nails, respectively (p=0.011). Patients treated with SHS also had slightly more pain (VAS 30 vs. 27, p=0.037) and were less satisfied (VAS 31 vs. 36, p=0.003) compared to patients treated with IM nail. There was no statistically significant difference in the EQ-5Dindex score, but the mobility was significantly better for the IM nail group.12 months postoperatively patients with transverse/reverse oblique trochanteric and subtrochanteric fractures operated with a SHS had a higher reoperation rate compared to those operated with an IM nail. Small differences regarding pain, satisfaction, quality of life, and mobility were also in favour of IM nailing. Consequently, a change in our treatment strategy for these fractures could be considered.Selective, bilateral multisegmental microsurgical decompression of lumbar spinal canal stenosis through separate, alternating cross-over approaches.Two- and multisegmental degenerative central and lateral lumbar spinal stenoses.None (however, if stabilization is necessary, the Slalom technique is not possible).Minimally invasive, muscle-sparing and facet-joint-sparing bilateral decompression of the lumbar spinal canal through 2 or more alternating microsurgical cross-over approaches from one side.Early mobilization 4-6 h postoperatively. Soft lumbar brace for 4 weeks (optional).Between December 2010 and May 2011, the operation was performed in 35 patients (10 women; 25 men; age 71.8 years). The average time of surgery was 42 min/segment, the average blood loss was 20.3 ml/segment. Of the 35 patients, 15 did not required wound drainage. All patients were mobilized without restriction after 4-6 h, hospitalization was 5.2 days. There were 3 intraoperative complications (2 Dura lesions [5.7%] and 1 temporary L5 radiculopathy probably due to swelling of the L5 nerve root [2.8%]). Postoperatively there was a significant improvement in quality of life as measured with EQ 5D and Oswestry Disability Index as well as a significant improvement of walking distance and standing time.Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection can significantly reduce health-related quality of life (QoL), but it is not clear if reduction is associated with the infection or with being aware of one's infection status. Understanding the impact of a HCV diagnosis on QoL is essential to inform decision-making regarding screening/testing and treatment.Using a cross-sectional design, we assessed QoL in 2898 people who inject drugs (PWID), surveyed in Scotland during 2010 using EQ-5D. Multifactorial regression compared self-reported QoL between PWID who were (i) chronically HCV-infected and aware of their infected status, (ii) chronically HCV-infected but unaware, and (iii) not chronically infected.Median time since onset of injecting was 10years; not chronically infected PWID were younger and had shorter injecting careers than chronically infected PWID. Median EQ-5D was highest for the not chronically infected and the chronic/unaware groups (0.73) compared with the chronic/aware group (0.66). After adjustment for demographic and behavioural co-factors, QoL was significantly reduced in chronic/aware compared with chronic/unaware PWID (adjusted B=-0.09, p=0.005); there was no evidence for a difference in QoL between not chronically infected and chronic/unaware PWID (adjusted B=-0.03, p=0.13).Awareness of one's chronic HCV status was associated with reduced health-related QoL, but there was no evidence for further reduction attributable to chronic infection itself after adjusting for important covariate differences.Expectations held by patients and health professionals may affect treatment choices and participation (by both patients and health professionals) in therapeutic interventions in contemporary patient-centered healthcare environments. If patients in rehabilitation settings overestimate their discharge health-related quality of life, they may become despondent as their progress falls short of their expectations. On the other hand, underestimating their discharge health-related quality of life may lead to a lack of motivation to participate in therapies if they do not perceive likely benefit. There is a scarcity of empirical evidence evaluating whether patients' expectations of future health states are accurate. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the accuracy with which older patients admitted for subacute in-hospital rehabilitation can anticipate their discharge health-related quality of life.A prospective longitudinal cohort investigation of agreement between patients' anticipated discharge health-related quality of life (as reported on the EQ-5D instrument at admission to a rehabilitation unit) and their actual self-reported health-related quality of life at the time of discharge from this unit was undertaken. The mini-mental state examination was used as an indicator of patients' cognitive ability.Overall, 232(85%) patients had all assessment data completed and were included in analysis. Kappa scores ranged from 0.42-0.68 across the five EQ-5D domains and two patient cognition groups. The percentage of exact correct matches within each domain ranged from 69% to 85% across domains and cognition groups. Overall 40% of participants in each cognition group correctly anticipated all of their self-reported discharge EQ-5D domain responses.Patients admitted for subacute in-hospital rehabilitation were able to anticipate their discharge health-related quality of life on the EQ-5D instrument with a moderate level of accuracy. This finding adds to the foundational empirical work supporting joint treatment decision making and patient-centered models of care during rehabilitation following acute illness or injury. Accurate patient expectations of the impact of treatment (or disease progression) on future health-related related quality of life is likely to allow patients and health professionals to successfully target interventions to priority areas where meaningful gains can be achieved.The aim of the study was to report the musculoskeletal function and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after an unstable trochanteric fracture treated with a cephalomedullary nail.One hundred and seventeen patients, mean age 84.1 years, were included in a 1-year prospective cohort study. Outcome measurements included musculoskeletal function according to the Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment (SMFA) and HRQoL according to the EQ-5D.Fourteen patients (12.0 %) were reoperated on, all but one being due to a secondary lag-screw penetration/cut-out. The need for revision surgery was significantly higher after a 4-part fracture according to the Jensen-Michaelsen classification as compared to after a 3-part fracture, i.e. 17 versus 6 % (p = 0.048). The reoperation was a hip replacement in 12 of the 14 patients, a total hip replacement (THR) in 10 and a hemiarthroplasty in 2. The SMFA dysfunction and bother indices in all patients showed a significant deterioration at 12 months compared to before the fracture, from 24.8 to 42.4 (p < 0.001) and 14.3 to 33.7 (p < 0.001), respectively. The EQ-5D(index) score decreased from 0.79 prefracture to 0.51 (p < 0.001). The final outcome for the patients who underwent reoperation with THR was surprisingly good with an SMFA dysfunction index of 43.4, a bother index of 36.6 and an EQ-5D(index) score of 0.58.An unstable trochanteric fracture treated with a cephalomedullary nail had a substantial negative impact on the patient's musculoskeletal function and HRQoL. The need for revision surgery was significantly higher after a 4-part fracture compared to after a 3-part fracture. The by far most common fracture complication, i.e. a secondary lag-screw penetration/cut-out, was successfully treated with a THR.Despite a successful surgical procedure, deficits in muscle strength and physical function are documented 1-2 years after total hip replacement (THR). There is a lack of evidence concerning which rehabilitation strategy is the most effective after THR. The purpose of this pilot study was to investigate the feasibility of an early-initiated intensified, home-based training regime and to form the basis of future studies with regard to exercises, outcome measures and power calculations.The trial is a single-blinded, cluster-randomized controlled trial performed at an orthopaedic physiotherapy department in a public hospital in Denmark. A consecutive sample of 46 patients undergoing primary THR surgery for osteoarthritis between September 2008 and January 2009 was included. Forty-four patients completed the trial (96% follow-up). Participants were randomly assigned to an intervention group (IG, n = 23) receiving 12 weeks of intensified exercises (e.g. rubber band resistance) or a control group (CG, n = 21) receiving standard rehabilitation exercises without external resistance. The outcome measurements were maximal gait speed, isometric hip abductor muscle strength, one-legged stance, health-related quality of life (EuroQol-5 Dimensions), patient satisfaction, and patient-evaluated function, stiffness and pain (Western and Ontario McMasters University Osteoarthritis Index).There were significant increases in both groups in all the measurements during the 12 weeks of exercises. All participants in the IG were satisfied or very satisfied with the exercises compared with 85% in the CG (P = 0.095). In the IG, four participants (17.4%) had difficulties when performing the intensified exercises at home. Hip abduction strength was significantly weaker in the leg operated compared with the leg not operated on after the intervention in both groups (P < 0.01).This pilot study indicates that the majority of THR patients tolerated early-initiated intensified exercises without additional pain and with high patient satisfaction. It seems that some of the patients need supervision to perform intensified exercises.This study was conducted to determine the relationship between lifestyle behavior and quality of life (QoL) among cancer survivors in Korea.Data for a total of 471 (173 men, 298 women) cancer survivors (CS) over 40 years old were obtained from the database of the 4th Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHANES IV). An identical number of subjects of the same age, sex, and education who had no restrictions in physical activity were randomly selected from the database and represented the control group (CG). Drinking, smoking, and exercise behavior were assessed.The number of heavy drinkers was lower in CS (9.4%) than in CG (15.8%) (p<0.01); similarly, there were fewer smokers in CS (9.1%) than in CG (14.0%) (p<0.05). The percentage of individuals engaging in vigorous, moderate, and low-intensity exercise did not differ between CS (13.6%, 14.7%, and 50.0%) and CG (14.3%, 13.4%, and 49.7%, respectively). No differences in Euro QoL Questionnaire 5-Dimensional Classification (EQ-5D) scores on both drinking and smoking behaviors were noted. Compared to the non-exercisers, the low-intensity exercisers in CG (0.91±0.10 vs. 0.94±0.09), vigorous-intensity exercisers in CS (0.84±0.62 vs. 0.91±0.11), and low-intensity exercisers in CS (0.82±0.22 vs. 0.88±0.13) scored higher on the EQ-5D.Although cancer survivors practiced more conscious health behavior in drinking and smoking, their engagement in exercise did not differ from that of non-cancer survivors. Since exercise engagement increases QoL in general, implementation of an educational program that promotes exercise engagement in cancer survivors may be required.  To identify patients likely to benefit from spinal cord stimulation (SCS).  This multicenter, prospective, open-label study included medical centers experienced in SCS therapy, carried out in 13 physicians in seven centers. We recruited 55 patients with complex regional pain syndrome, failed back surgery syndrome, or peripheral vascular disease. Neurostimulators were implanted in 34 patients found to respond to SCS in a preliminary test, who were then followed for six months. Thirty-four patients scored their pain on a visual analog scale (VAS) and completed the EuroQol-5D questionnaire before and after test stimulation and after one and six months.  During test stimulation, the mean VAS and quality of life (QOL) scores improved from 74.0 to 23.4 and from 0.430 to 0.664, respectively, in the 34 patients. At six months, the mean VAS score was 29.7 in 29 patients and the mean QOL score was 0.661 in 31 patients.  SCS may improve pain management and QOL.Variables of renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis with inclusion of protein binding to specific plasma globulin (ABG), plasma cortisol, and the blood pressure (BP) were measured in 24 chimpanzees, 4 gorillas, and 16 cynomolgus monkeys. ABG activity was readily detected in plasma from the primates. In chimpanzees and gorillas, all the variables under baseline conditions were similar to those in humans. In cynomolgus (Macaca fascicularis), both the ABG binding capacity for aldosterone and the diastolic or systolic BP were significantly higher (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01 respectively) than in chimpanzees and gorillas.Several factors can modify health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of breast cancer survivors. The objective of the current study was to analyse the associations between HRQOL scores 1 year after breast cancer surgery and sociodemographic and clinical factors.This was an observational, multicentre and prospective study of a cohort of patients who underwent oncological breast cancer surgery and which was followed up for 1 year. The HRQOL was assessed at 1 year after surgery using three questionnaires: EuroQol-5D, EORTC QLQ-C30 and its breast-specific module BR-23.A total of 364 patients participated in the study. Some factors were associated with better HRQOL 1 year after surgery: age between 60 and 69 years and under 50 years, being single or a housewife, stage I-II, invasive papillary carcinoma, breast-conserving surgery (BCS) or lack of axillary dissection. However, only the following were independent predictive factors: being single or a housewife, BCS, invasive papillary carcinoma, coming from an outpatient clinic or not receiving radiotherapy. Further, some factors were independent predictors of a worse HRQOL: age over 70 years, being married, separated or widowed, stage III or not receiving adjuvant chemotherapy.Demographic and clinical factors can influence HRQOL, some of them independently.The economic evaluation of health care technologies employs a standard economic approach based on preferences to provide utility information. Previous studies have used happiness rather than preferences to weight health states using general population data. However, these data may not reflect the full range and scope of health and happiness experienced by patients. This paper applies a similar approach to a large patient sample (N = 15,184) from a hospital in Wales, UK collected between 2002 and 2004. Logit regression models were used to assess the relationship between happiness and the health state classifications of two measures, the EQ-5D and the SF-6D. The results suggest a different weighting across dimensions to that from preference elicitation techniques such as time trade-off and standard gamble. While mental health (depression and anxiety), vitality and social functioning were found to have a large significant association with the patients' own happiness assessment, pain was less so and physical health had no association.Dementia is one of the most common and serious disorders in later life and the economic and personal cost of caring for people with dementia is immense. There is a need to be able to evaluate interventions in dementia using cost-effectiveness analyses, but the generic preference-based measures typically used to measure effectiveness do not work well in dementia. Existing dementia-specific measures can effectively measure health-related quality of life but in their current form cannot be used directly to inform cost-effectiveness analysis using quality-adjusted life-years as the measure of effectiveness.The aim was to develop two brief health-state classifications, one from DEMQOL and one from DEMQOL-Proxy, to generate health states amenable to valuation. These classification systems consisted of items taken from DEMQOL and DEMQOL-Proxy so they can be derived from any study that has used these instruments.In the first stage of the study we used a large, clinically representative sample aggregated from two sources: a sample of patients and carers attending a memory service in south London and a sample of patients and carers from other community services in south London. This included 644 people with a diagnosis of mild/moderate dementia and 689 carers of those with mild/moderate dementia. For the valuation study, the general population sample of 600 respondents was drawn to be representative of the UK general population. Households were sampled in urban and rural areas in northern England and balanced to the UK population according to geodemographic profiles. In the patient/carer valuation study we interviewed a sample of 71 people with mild dementia and 71 family carers drawn from a memory service in south London. Finally, the instruments derived were applied to data from the HTA-SADD (Study of Antidepressants for Depression in Dementia) trial.This was a complex multiphase study with four linked phases: phase 1 - derivation of the health-state classification system; phase 2 - general population valuation survey and modelling to produce values for every health state; phase 3 - patient/carer valuation survey; and phase 4 - application of measures to trial data.All four phases were successful and this report details this development process leading to the first condition-specific preference-based measures in dementia, an important new development in this field.The first limitation relates to the lack of an external data set to validate the DEMQOL-U and DEMQOL-Proxy-U classification systems. Throughout the development process we have made decisions about which methodology to use. There are other valid techniques that could be used and it is possible to criticise the choices that we have made. It is also possible that the use of a mild to moderate dementia sample has resulted in classification systems that do not fully reflect the challenges of severe dementia.The results presented are sufficiently encouraging to recommend that the DEMQOL instruments be used alongside a generic measure such as the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) in future studies of interventions in dementia as there was evidence that they can be more sensitive for patients at the milder end of disease and some limited evidence that the person with dementia measure may be able to reflect deterioration.The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.Many patients with cerebral infarction suffer from symptoms such as pain, fatigue, and depression. The aim of this study was to evaluate these symptoms in relation to health-related quality of life (HRQoL) on long-term follow-up.All surviving stroke patients admitted to the Stroke Unit, Haukeland University Hospital, Norway between February 2006 and November 2008 were sent a questionnaire, including a visual analog pain scale, Fatigue Severity Scale, Depression Subscale of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, Barthel Index, and three measures of HRQoL--15D, EuroQol, and EuroQol Visual Analogue Scale--at least 6 months after stroke onset. Cox regression survival analysis, including EQ-5D, was performed by November 2009.The questionnaire was returned by 328 patients. All three symptoms were reported by 10.1% of the patients, and 26% reported two symptoms. There was a significant association between worse HRQoL scores and an increasing number of cooccurring symptoms for all three HRQoL scores. Fatigue, depression, pain, functional state, and sleeping disorder on follow-up accounted for 58%-83% of the variability in HRQoL, depending on which HRQoL scale was used. Cox regression analysis showed that mortality was associated with a low EuroQol score (P = 0.016).Pain, fatigue, and depression were common symptoms among these stroke patients and, to a large extent, they determined the patients' HRQoL. Low HRQoL was associated with increased mortality.To compare vision-related functioning and health-related quality of life of patients with noninfectious intermediate or posterior uveitis with those of the US general population and normal-vision reference groups.Secondary analysis of health-related quality of life measures administered at baseline to patients with noninfectious intermediate or posterior uveitis participating in the HURON trial, a 26-week, multicenter, masked, randomized, sham-controlled trial of a dexamethasone intravitreal implant (n=224) was performed. Patient-reported outcome measures included the National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-25, the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey, the Short Form-6 Dimensions, and the EuroQol-5D. The National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-25 scores from the HURON uveitis population were compared with published National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-25 scores from a normal-vision reference group (n=122). The 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey, Short Form-6 Dimensions, and EuroQol-5D scores were compared with the US general population using data from the National Health Measurement Study (n=3844) and the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (n=955).Compared with a normal-vision population, the HURON uveitis population had clinically significant impairments across all National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-25 subscales and the composite score, with all subscale score differences exceeding 10 points (P< .001). The HURON uveitis population had significantly lower 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey mental component summary and Short Form-6 Dimensions scores compared with a US general population sample (P< .001). No significant differences were found for the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey physical component summary and EuroQol-5D scores between the uveitis and US general population samples.Compared with the US general population and normal-vision reference groups, noninfectious intermediate or posterior uveitis results in meaningful reductions in mental health outcomes, health-related quality of life, and vision-related functioning.clinicaltrials.gov Identifier:NCT00333814.A prospective observational study to test the effects of risedronate 17.5 mg/week treatment on quality of life (QOL) of 1,363 Japanese female patients with osteoporosis showed QOL improvement after 12 weeks of administration. Comorbid factors such as ischemic heart disease, hip osteoarthritis, and higher values of FRAX blunted the effects of QOL of the treatment. Few studies have investigated the effect of osteoporosis treatment on QOL in relationship to comorbid factors other than osteoporosis and fracture. Efficacy was determined by changes over time in EQ-5D at baseline, at 12 and 24 weeks, and at the final assessment. Factors affecting changes in EQ-5D were evaluated with a multivariate analysis. Safety was determined by assessing the incident rate of adverse events. The improvement of EQ-5D compared to baseline was observed as significant after 12 weeks of treatment (p < 0.001). The greatest improvement was observed in the dimension of "pain/discomfort" by the multivariate analysis (p < 0.001). Factors affecting QOL improvement were FRAX value without BMD, age, glucocorticoid use, ischemic heart disease, hip osteoarthritis, and pain. The incidence rate of drug-related adverse events was 4.72 % (95 % confidence interval 3.63-6.02 %). Risedronate at 17.5 mg/week improved the QOL in patients with osteoporosis among Japanese women, and comorbidity factors decreased the effects.An expression vector containing the Rhizobium leguminosarum nodA promoter cloned in front of the Escherichia coli lacZ gene was used to characterize the properties of the R. leguminosarum nodA gene-inducing compound(s) present in sterile root exudate of the host plant Vicia sativa L. subsp. nigra (L.). The major inducing compound was flavonoid in nature, most likely a flavanone. The commercially available flavonoids naringenin (5,7,4'-trihydroxyflavanone), eriodictyol (5,7,3'4'-tetrahydroxyflavanone), apigenin (5,7,4'-trihydroxyflavone), and luteolin (5,7,3',4'-tetrahydroxyflavone) induced the nodA promoter to the same level as the root exudate. On the basis of chromatographic properties, it was concluded that none of these compounds is identical to the inducer that is present in root exudate. The induction of the nodA promoter by root exudate and by the most effective inducer naringenin was very similar, as judged from the genetic requirements and the kinetics of induction.A number of studies have been published on the benefits of prophylactic treatment in adults with haemophilia. However, in many countries, it is considered as optional due to financial constraints. This survey was carried out to examine the long-term effects of prophylaxis and the continuing benefit of the treatment into adulthood. Self-assessed health-related data and the EQ-5D questionnaire measuring health utility were collected from 124 men (26.9 ± 4.6 years) from Canada (N = 40), France (N = 14), Ireland (N = 17), the Netherlands (N = 16), Poland (N = 24) and the UK (N = 13). The respondents were split into four groups: On-Demand, <50% life on prophylaxis, ≥ 50% life on prophylaxis, Prophylaxis. Overall, long-term prophylaxis results in lower presence of target joints (P ≤ 0.001), occurrence of serious bleeding episodes (P ≤ 0.05), recurring bleeding episodes (P ≤ 0.01) and requirement for surgical procedures (P ≤ 0.05). Furthermore, health utility (P ≤ 0.01) in the On-demand group was significantly lower (P ≤ 0.01) compared to the ≥ 50% life on prophylaxis and the Prophylaxis group. No significant differences between countries were found except between the Netherlands and Poland, with Poland showing the lowest health utility (P ≤ 0.01) and the most problems with mobility (P ≤ 0.05) and pain/discomfort (P ≤ 0.001). The Netherlands showed the highest health utility (0.915) followed by Canada (0.791), Ireland (0.786), UK (0.768), France (0.687) and Poland (0.629). The results demonstrate consistently higher quality of life of individuals who are on long-term prophylactic treatment when compared to on-demand treatment or intermittent prophylaxis and on -demand treatment.As moderate to severe psoriasis is a systemic disease with large effects on health-related quality of life, generic measures that include overall health, not only skin involvement, are necessary. Knowledge about the relationship between the generic preference-based EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D) and dermatology-specific measures in psoriasis is limited.To analyse EQ-5D, the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) and the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis in Swedish clinical practice by demographic characteristics, to compare EQ-5D among patients vs. Swedish population values, and to analyse the relationships between EQ-5D, DLQI and PASI.This observational cohort study was based on PsoReg, the Swedish National Registry for Systemic Treatment of Psoriasis. EQ-5D was compared among patients with psoriasis vs. a defined general population in Sweden, retrieved from a previous study. Relationships between measures were examined with correlation tests and regression analysis.In total, 2450 patients (1479 men and 971 women) were included. Median EQ-5D, DLQI and PASI scores were 0·769, 4 and 4·7, respectively. Patients with psoriasis had a significantly lower EQ-5D compared with the defined general population. EQ-5D correlated moderately with DLQI (-0·55) and weakly with PASI (-0·25) (P < 0·001).When assessing psoriasis treatments and making decisions about treatment guidelines and resource allocation, EQ-5D, DLQI and PASI provide a useful set of complementary tools, answering to different needs. If EQ-5D is not included in the original trial the second-best option in cost-effectiveness studies is to use mapping between DLQI and EQ-5D.Although clinical studies have shown efficacy of biological agents in moderate to severe psoriasis, observational studies of real-world effectiveness are rare.To analyse the psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) and quality of life by the EQ-5D questionnaire and dermatology quality of life index (DLQI) in psoriasis patients who switched from conventional systemic treatment to biological agents in clinical practice. Furthermore, to analyse patient groups with the highest benefit of biological agents.Longitudinal, observational study based on the Swedish National Registry for Systemic Treatment of Psoriasis, PsoReg. Outcomes of biological-naïve patients who switched to a biological agent (n = 267) were analysed before switch and at the first follow-up.Patients significantly improved in EQ-5D, DLQI and PASI (p < 0.001). Patients with DLQI ≥10 and/or PASI ≥10 had the greatest benefits from biological agents in terms of EQ-5D.Patients with moderate to severe psoriasis benefit from biological agents in clinical practice; the patients with the highest benefits were those with high pretreatment PASI and DLQI scores.The EQ-5D-5L has recently been developed to improve the sensitivity of the widely used three-level version. Valuation studies are required before the use of this new instrument can be adopted. The use of discrete choice experiments (DCEs) in this area is a promising area of research.To test the plausibility and acceptability of estimating an Australian algorithm for the newly developed five-level version of the EQ-5D using a DCE.A choice experiment was designed, consisting of 200 choice sets blocked such that each respondent answered 10 choice sets. Each choice set presented two health state-duration combinations, and an immediate death option. The experiment was implemented in an online Australian-representative sample. A random-effects probit model was estimated. To explore the feasibility of the approach, an indicative algorithm was developed. The algorithm is transformed to a 0 to 1 scale suitable for use to estimate quality-adjusted life-year weights for use in economic evaluation.A total of 973 respondents undertook the choice experiment. Respondents were slightly younger and better educated than the general Australian population. Of the 973 respondents, 932 (95.8 %) completed all ten choice sets, and a further 12 completed some of the choice sets. In choice sets in which one health state-duration combination dominated another, the dominant option was selected on 89.5 % of occasions. The mean and median completion times were 17.9 and 9.4 min, respectively, exhibiting a highly skewed distribution. The estimation results are broadly consistent with the monotonic nature of the EQ-5D-5L. Utility is increasing in life expectancy (i.e., respondents tend to prefer health profiles with longer life expectancy), and mainly decreases in higher levels in each dimension of the instrument. A high proportion of respondents found the task clear and relatively easy to complete.DCEs are a feasible approach to the estimation of utility weights for more complex multi-attribute utility instruments such as the EQ-5D-5L.The Multicenter Automatic Defibrillator Implantation Trial-Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (MADIT-CRT) trial demonstrated that cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) when added to the implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) reduces risk of heart failure or death in minimally symptomatic patients with reduced cardiac ejection fraction and wide QRS complex.To evaluate 4-year cost-effectiveness of CRT-ICD compared to ICD alone using MADIT-CRT data.Patients enrolled in the trial were randomized to implantation of either ICD or CRT-ICD in a 2:3 ratio, with up to 4-year follow-up period. Cost-effectiveness analyses were conducted, and sensitivity analyses by age, gender, and left bundle branch block (LBBB) conduction pattern were performed.A total of 1,271 patients with ICD or CRT-ICD (US centers only) who reported healthcare utilization and health-related quality of life data.We used the EQ-5D (US weights) to assess patient HRQOL and translated utilization data to costs using national Medicare reimbursement rates.Average 4-year healthcare expenditures in CRT-ICD patients were higher than costs of ICD patients ($62,600 vs 57,050, P = 0.015), mainly due to the device and implant-related costs. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of CRT-ICD compared to ICD was $58,330/quality-adjusted life years (QALY) saved. The cost effectiveness improved with longer time horizon and for the LBBB subgroup ($7,320/QALY), with no cost-effectiveness benefit being evident in the non-LBBB group.In minimally symptomatic patients with low ejection fraction and LBBB, CRT-ICD is cost effective within 4-year horizon when compared to ICD-only.Chronic pain is known to be a significant and common health problem. Tapentadol, a recently developed centrally active, oral analgesic agent is used to treat adults with severe chronic pain that can be adequately managed only with opioid analgesics. Tapentadol has been reported to provide an improved adverse-events (AE) profile compared with other potent opioid analgesics at similar levels of analgesia.The aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of tapentadol to that of opioids commonly used as first-line treatment of severe, chronic, nonmalignant pain from the perspective of the health care payer in Spain.A Markov state-transition model was developed to compare the cost-effectiveness of first-line treatment with tapentadol to that of oxycodone, morphine, and transdermal fentanyl (TDF) over a 1-year time horizon. Four health states were defined: (1) treatment discontinuation due to a severe AE; (2) treatment discontinuation due to a lack of efficacy; (3) occurrence of an AE that required medical treatment; and (4) no discontinuation and no AE. If a patient discontinued a treatment, he or she was switched to an alternative, second-line opioid. Data regarding efficacy, tolerability, and utility values (EQ-5D) were derived from randomized clinical trials. Clinical experts estimated the rates of switching to other opioids and the health care resource utilization associated with the treatment of severe chronic pain. Unit costs were derived from public price lists/tariff works and were calculated from the perspective of the National Spanish Health System. The robustness of the model results was tested in extensive sensitivity analyses in which event probabilities, costs, utilities, and treatment-switching rates were altered.Data from 3 studies (1981 patients) were included in the model. Overall, the model predicted that initiating first-line treatment with tapentadol in patients with severe, chronic, nonmalignant pain was associated with lower costs and greater efficacy versus first-line treatment with oxycodone. Compared with morphine and TDF, tapentadol yielded incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of €2656 and €2069 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, respectively. On extensive 1-way and scenario analyses, findings on the cost-effectiveness of tapentadol were consistent. The probability that tapentadol would be cost-effective compared with each comparator at the willingness-to-pay threshold of €20,000 to €30,000/QALY gained exceeded 90%.Based on the findings from the present model, tapentadol is likely to be a cost-effective first-line treatment in patients with severe, chronic, nonmalignant pain in Spain according to the commonly accepted willingness-to-pay thresholds. Compared with morphine and TDF, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were low; compared with oxycodone, tapentadol dominated, showing better quality-of-life outcomes at lower costs.Data concerning long-term outcomes and quality of life (QOL) in critically ill cancer patients are scarce. The aims of this study were to assess long-term outcomes and QOL in critically ill patients with hematological (HM) or solid malignancies (SM) 3 months and 1 year after intensive care unit (ICU) discharge, to compare these with QOL before ICU admission, and to identify prognostic indicators of long-term QOL.During a 1 year prospective observational cohort analysis, consecutive patients with HM or SM admitted to the medical or surgical ICU of a university hospital were screened for inclusion. Cancer data, demographics, co-morbidity, severity of illness, organ failures, and outcomes were collected. The QOL before ICU admission, 3 months, and 1 year after ICU discharge was assessed using standardized questionnaires (EuroQoL-5D, Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short Form Health Survey). Statistical significance was attained at P < 0.05.There were 483 patients (85 HM, 398 SM) (64% men) with a median age of 62 years included. Mortality rates of HM compared to SM were, respectively: hospital (34 vs. 13%), 3 months (42 vs. 17%), and 1 year (66 vs. 36%) (P < 0.001). QOL declined at 3 months, but improved at 1 year although it remained under baseline QOL, particularly in HM. Older age (P = 0.007), severe comorbidity (P = 0.035), and HM (P = 0.041) were independently associated with poorer QOL at 1 year.Long-term outcomes and QOL were poor, particularly in HM. Long-term expectations should play a larger role during multidisciplinary triage decisions upon referral to the ICU.Bariatric surgery is considered an efficient treatment for severe obesity, but postoperative complications and psychosocial problems may impact quality of life (QoL). Although QoL is an important aspect of bariatric surgery, few studies have evaluated the changes in QoL. We examined whether severely obese patients who had undergone bariatric surgery had better QoL compared with severely obese adults who had not undergone bariatric surgery in Korea.Data were obtained from 78 participants in two groups; bariatric surgery group (n = 53) and nonsurgery group (n = 25). EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D), the impact of weight on quality of life-lite (IWQoL-lite) and the obesity-related psychosocial problem scale (OP-scale) were used to assess the improvement of QoL.A total of 78 patients completed the QoL forms as part of their surgical consultation. In the EQ-5D, the changes of EQ-5D 3 level and EQ-5D visual analogue scale in the surgery group was 0.174 and 24.6 versus 0.017 and 17.8 in the nonsurgery group (P = 0.197 and P = 0.179). The changes of IWQoL-lite and OP-scale were significantly improved after bariatric surgery. In the IWQoL-lite, the mean changes in the surgery group was 33.4 versus 14.3 points in the nonsurgery group (P = 0.000). In the OP-scale, the mean changes in the surgery group patients scored 39.3 versus 9.0 points in the nonsurgery group (P = 0.000).We demonstrated significant improvement of QoL observed after bariatric surgery compared to nonsurgical procedure. The results of this comparative study favor bariatric surgery for the treatment of severe obesity.Relapses are a common feature of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) and increasing severity has been shown to be associated with higher healthcare costs, and to result in transient increases in disability. Increasing disability likely impacts work and leisure productivity, and lowers quality of life.The objective of this study was to characterize from the patient's perspective the impact of a multiple sclerosis (MS) relapse in terms of the economic cost, work and leisure productivity, functional ability, and health-related quality of life (HR-QOL), for a sample of patients with RRMS in the US treated with immunomodulatory agents.A cross-sectional, web-based, self-report survey was conducted among members of MSWatch.com, a patient support website now known as Copaxone.com. Qualified respondents in the US had been diagnosed with RRMS and were using an immunomodulatory agent. The survey captured costs of RRMS with questions about healthcare resource utilization, use of community services, and purchased alterations and assistive items related to MS. The Work and Leisure Impairment instrument and the EQ-5D were used to measure productivity losses and HR-QOL (health utility), respectively. The Goodin MS neurological impairment questionnaire was used to measure functional disability; questions were added about relapses in the past year.Of 711 qualified respondents, 67% reported having at least one relapse during the last year, with a mean of 2.2 ± 2.3 relapses/year. Respondents who experienced at least one relapse had significantly higher mean annual direct and indirect costs compared with those who did not experience a relapse ($US38 458 vs $US28 669; p = 0.0004) [year 2009 values]. Direct health-related costs accounted for the majority of the increased cost ($US5201; 53%) and were mainly due to increases in hospitalizations, medications, and ambulatory care. Indirect costs, including informal care and productivity loss, accounted for the additional 47% of increased cost ($US4588). Accounting for the mean number of relapses associated with these increased costs, the total economic cost of one relapse episode could be estimated at about $US4449, exclusive of intangible costs. The mean self-reported Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score, derived from the Goodin MS questionnaire, was significantly higher with relapse than with a clinically stable state (EDSS 4.3 vs 3.7; p < 0.0001), while the mean health utility score was significantly lower with relapse compared with a clinically stable state (0.66 vs 0.75; p = 0.0001). The value of these intangible costs of relapse can be estimated at $US5400. The overall burden (direct, indirect, and intangible costs) of one relapse in patients treated with immunomodulatory agents is therefore estimated conservatively at $US9849.This study shows that from a patient's perspective an MS relapse is associated with a significant increase in the economic costs as well as a decline in HR-QOL and functional ability.Thirty-eight homozygous sickler sera were compared with a large pool of serum from healthy African non-sicklers with regard to bactericidal and phagocytic indices. One third of the sera showed reduced bactericidal activity against Salmonella enteritidis which was restored by the addition of 4% control serum; control serum provided both heat-labile (HL) and absorbable (ABS) serum factors. 76% of test sera showed greatly defective opsonization as indicated by ingestion by normal human neutrophils. Activity was not readily restored by the addition of control serum which provided only HL factors. Intracellular survival was increased when bacteria were ingested from sickler serum; activity was readily restored by control serum which provided both HL and ABS factors. In the presence of both serum and neutrophils 84% of test sera permitted increased bacterial survival; the defect was not readily reversed by the addition of control serum which provided both HL and ABS factors.When using the EQ-5D in European cross-national studies, there is no consensus over whether the European value set (EVS), country specific value sets (CVS) or UK value set (UKVS) should be used. Data on health outcomes were collected in 7 countries. EQ-5D index scores were generated for each country using all three value sets. QALYs gained over 4 weeks based on EQ-5D scores were also generated in order to investigate the implications for cost-utility analysis. EQ-5D scores obtained using the EVS were similar to values obtained using the CVS and UKVS in all countries. CVS-based EQ-5D scores were on average associated with a smaller baseline-to-week 4 change/improvement in all countries (except in Wales and Belgium) while UKVS-based EQ-5D scores showed the largest improvement over the same period for every country. With regards to cost-utility analysis, the results suggest that in most countries (with the exception of Belgium and Finland), using different tariffs to value EQ-5D would not have made a difference to the decisions based on the results of cost-utility analysis.For patients with coronary heart diseases a substantial part of secondary prevention is delivered in primary care. Along with the growing importance of prevention, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is an indicator of patient-centered care that has gained increased attention. Different approaches for reorganization in primary care have been associated with improvements in HRQoL. However, these are often results of complex interventions. Evidence on aspects concerning usual primary care that actually have an impact on HRQoL remains scarce. Therefore, this observational study aimed to identify factors which are associated with HRQoL in usual primary care at practice and patient-level.This observational study was conducted in eight European countries. We were able to match data from survey instruments for 3505 patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) in 228 practices. A multilevel analysis was performed to identify associations of EQ-5D scores at patient and practice-level.After dropping patients with missing information, our cohort consisted of 2656 patients. In this sample, 30.5% were female and the mean age was 67.5 years (SD 10.1). The final model included a total set of 14 potential explanatory variables. At practice-level no variable was associated with EQ-5D. At patient-level, lower education (r = -0.0381, p<0.0001), female gender (r = -0.0543, p<0.0001) and a higher number of other conditions (r = -0.0340, p<0.0001), had a strong negative effect on HRQoL. Strong positive associations with HRQoL were found for a good medication adherence (Morisky) (r = 0.0195, p<0.0001) and more positive evaluations of physicians' clinical behavior (r = 0.0282, p = 0.002). In terms of HRQoL no differences between single-handed and group practices exist.The results of our study suggest that a better patient-physician relationship rather than organization of CHD care is associated with higher HRQOL in the primary care setting. The results may imply that interventions to improve HRQoL require a strong patient-centered approach.Minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MIS-TLIF) for lumbar spondylolisthesis allows for surgical treatment of back and leg pain while theoretically minimizing tissue injury and accelerating overall recovery. Although the authors of previous studies have demonstrated shorter length of hospital stay and reduced blood loss with MIS versus open-TLIF, short- and long-term outcomes have been similar. No studies to date have evaluated the comprehensive health care costs associated with TLIF procedures or assessed the cost-utility of MIS- versus open-TLIF. As such, we set out to assess previously unstudied end points of health care cost and cost-utility associated with MIS- versus open-TLIF.Thirty patients undergoing MIS-TLIF (n=15) or open-TLIF (n=15) for grade I degenerative spondylolisthesis associated back and leg pain were prospectively studied. Total back-related medical resource use, missed work, and health-state values (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], calculated from EQ-5D with U.S. valuation) were assessed after two-year follow-up. Two-year resource use was multiplied by unit costs on the basis of Medicare national allowable payment amounts (direct cost) and work-day losses were multiplied by the self-reported gross-of-tax wage rate (indirect cost). Difference in mean total cost per QALY gained for MIS- versus open-TLIF was assessed as incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER: COSTmis-COSTopen/QALYmis-QALYopen).MIS versus open-TLIF cohorts were similar at baseline. By two years postoperatively, patients undergoing MIS- versus open-TLIF reported similar mean QALYs gained (0.50 vs. 0.41, P=0.17). Mean total two-year cost of MIS- and open-TLIF was $35,996 and $44,727, respectively. The $8,731 two-year cost savings of MIS- versus open-TLIF did not reach statistical significance (P=0.18) for this sample size.Although our limited sample size prevented statistical significance, MIS- versus open-TLIF was associated with reduced costs over two years while providing equivalent improvement in QALYs. MIS-TLIF allows patients to leave the hospital sooner, achieve narcotic independence sooner, and return to work sooner than open-TLIF. In our experience, MIS- versus open-TLIF is a cost reducing technology in the surgical treatment of medically refractory low-back and leg pain from grade I lumbar spondylolisthesis.Spinal surgical outcome studies rely on patient reported outcome (PRO) measurements to assess the effect of treatment. A shortcoming of these questionnaires is that the extent of improvement in their numerical scores lacks a direct clinical meaning. As a result, the concept of minimum clinically important difference (MCID) has been used to measure the critical threshold needed to achieve clinically relevant treatment effectiveness. Post hoc anchor-based MCID methods have not been applied to the surgical treatment for pseudoarthrosis.To determine the most appropriate MCID values for visual analog scale (VAS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Short Form (SF)-12 physical component score (PCS), and European Quality of Life 5-Dimensions (EQ-5D) in patients undergoing revision lumbar arthrodesis for symptomatic pseudoarthrosis. STUDY DESIGN/ SETTING: Retrospective cohort study.In 47 patients undergoing revision fusion for pseudoarthrosis-associated back pain, PRO measures of back pain (BP-VAS), ODI, physical quality of life (SF-12 PCS), and general health utility (EQ-5D) were assessed preoperatively and 2 years postoperatively. Four subjective post hoc anchor-based MCID calculation methods were used to calculate MCID (average change; minimum detectable change; change difference; and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis) for two separate anchors (health transition index (HTI) of SF-36 and satisfaction index).All patients were available for a 2-year PRO assessment. Two years after surgery, a significant improvement was observed for all PROs; Mean change score: BP-VAS (2.3±2.6; p<.001), ODI (8.6%±13.2%; p<.001), SF-12 PCS (4.0±6.1; p=.01), and EQ-5D (0.18±0.19; p<.001). The four MCID calculation methods generated a wide range of MCID values for each of the PROs (BP-VAS: 2.0-3.2; ODI: 4.0%-16.6%; SF-12 PCS: 3.2-6.1; and EQ-5D: 0.14-0.24). There was no difference in response between anchors for any patient, suggesting that HTI and satisfaction anchors are equivalent in this patient population. The wide variations in calculated MCID values between methods precluded any ability to reliably determine what the true value is for meaningful change in this disease state.Using subjective post hoc anchor-based methods of MCID calculation, MCID after revision fusion for pseudoarthrosis varies by as much as 400% per PRO based on the calculation technique. MCID was suggested to be as low as 2 points for ODI and 3 points for SF-12. These wide variations and low values of MCID question the face validity of such calculation techniques, especially when applied to heterogeneous disease and patient groups with a multitude of psychosocial confounders such as failed back syndromes. The variability of MCID thresholds observed in our study of patients undergoing revision lumbar fusion for pseudoarthrosis raises further questions to whether ante hoc or Delphi methods may be a more valid and consistent technique to define clinically meaningful, patient-centered changes in PRO measurements.Spine surgery outcome studies rely on patient-reported outcome (PRO) measurements to assess treatment effect, but the extent of improvement in the numerical scores of these questionnaires lacks a direct clinical meaning. Because of this, the concept of a minimum clinically important difference (MCID) has been used to measure the critical threshold needed to achieve clinically relevant treatment effectiveness. As utilization of spinal fusion has increased over the past decade, so has the incidence of same-level recurrent stenosis following index lumbar fusion, which commonly requires revision decompression and fusion. The MCID remains uninvestigated for any PROs in the setting of revision lumbar surgery for this pathology.In 53 consecutive patients undergoing revision surgery for same-level recurrent lumbar stenosis-associated back and leg pain, PRO measures of back and leg pain were assessed preoperatively and 2 years postoperatively, using the visual analog scale for back pain (VAS-BP) and leg pain (VAS-LP), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Physical and Mental Component Summary categories of the 12-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12 PCS and MCS) for quality of life, Zung Depression Scale (ZDS), and EuroQol-5D health survey (EQ-5D). Four established anchor-based MCID calculation methods were used to calculate MCID (average change; minimum detectable change; change difference; and receiver operating characteristic curve analysis) for 2 separate anchors (health transition index of the SF-36 and the satisfaction index).All patients were available for 2-year PRO assessment. Two years after surgery, a significant improvement was observed for all PROs assessed. The 4 MCID calculation methods generated a range of MCID values for each of the PROs (VAS-BP 2.2-6.0, VAS-LP 3.9-7.5, ODI 8.2-19.9, SF-12 PCS 2.5-12.1, SF-12 MCS 7.0-15.9, ZDS 3.0-18.6, and EQ-5D 0.29-0.52). Each patient answered synchronously for the 2 anchors, suggesting both of these anchors are equally appropriate and valid for this patient population.The same-level recurrent stenosis surgery-specific MCID is highly variable based on calculation technique. The "minimum detectable change" approach is the most appropriate method for calculation of MCIDs in this population because it was the only method to reliably provide a threshold above the 95% confidence interval of the unimproved cohort (greater than the measurement error). Based on this method, the MCID thresholds following neural decompression and fusion for symptomatic same-level recurrent stenosis are 2.2 points for VAS-BP, 5.0 points for VAS-LP, 8.2 points for ODI, 2.5 points for SF-12 PCS, 10.1 points for SF-12 MCS, 4.9 points for ZDS, and 0.39 QALYs for EQ-5D.This analysis examined associations between gender and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) as they initiate therapy for CLL outside the clinical trial setting.Baseline data were collected as part of Connect® CLL Registry, a prospective observational study initiated in community, academic, and government centers. Patient demographics and clinical characteristics were provided by clinicians. Patients reported HRQOL using the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), EQ-5D, and Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Leukemia (FACT-Leu). Mean scores were analyzed, with statistical significance of differences determined by ANOVA. Multivariate analysis also considered age and line of therapy.Baseline HRQOL data were available for 1,140 patients: 710 (62 %) men and 430 (38 %) women from 161 centers. Patients were predominantly white (89 %) with mean age 69 ± 11 years. Women reported significantly worse global fatigue (P <0.0001), fatigue severity (P <0.0001), and fatigue-related interference (P = 0.0005) versus men (BFI). Pain/discomfort (P = 0.0077), usual activities (P = 0.0015), and anxiety/depression (P = 0.0117) were significantly worse in women than in men (EQ-5D). With women reporting a better social/family score (P = 0.0238) and men reporting a better physical score (P = 0.0002), the mean FACT-G total score did not differ by gender. However, the mean FACT-Leu total score was better among men versus women (P = 0.0223), primarily because the mean leukemia subscale score was significantly better among men (P <0.0001). Multivariate analysis qualitatively confirmed these findings.Connect® CLL Registry results indicate that significant differences exist in certain HRQOL domains, as women reported greater levels of fatigue and worse functioning in physical domains.An examination has been made of the blood pressure (BP), saline preference and circulating renin-angiotensin system of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) of the Okamoto strain, normotensive Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, SHR suckled from immediately after birth on an SD foster mother (SHR-on-SD) and SD cross-suckled on an SHR foster mother (SD-on-SHR). While the BP of SD-on-SHR was not significantly different from that of control SD, SHR-on-SD had significantly lower BP than SHR suckled on their natural mothers. In two-bottle preference tests, neither the saline preference nor total fluid intake of cross-suckled SHR was significantly different from that of SHR controls. While the total fluid intake of SD-on-SHR was not different from that of SD controls, the saline preference of cross-suckled SD was significantly lower than that of control SD. The heart, adrenal and kidney weights of SHR were significantly greater than those of SD, but there were no significant differences between cross-suckled rats and their respective controls. There were no significant differences in plasma renin activity (PRA) or angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity between any groups and these variables did not correlate with each other, with BP or with saline preference. Thus, some factor transferred from the SHR mother postnatally is required for full expression of the elevated BP, but not the exaggerated saline preference of the SHR. Conversely, the saline preference of SD, but not the BP, is altered by cross-suckling.: Health-related quality-of-life estimates currently available for urinary incontinence have largely been derived from population-based studies without physician confirmation of diagnosis. The purpose of this study was to compare the health state utility values for urinary incontinence in women derived from EQ-5D questionnaires and visual analog scale (VAS) with the economic gold standard method, the Standard Gamble (SG) interview.: Subjects were approached for study participation after a diagnosis of stress or urge urinary incontinence was made by the attending urogynecologist. Twenty-eight patients completed the Sandvik Severity Index (SSI), EQ-5D, and VAS. They then participated in the SG conversation.: The median utility (interquartile range) for stress incontinence varied based on the methods: EQ-5D, 0.83 (0.23); VAS, 0.85 (0.15); and SG, 1.00 (0.01). There was a statistically significant difference between the SG assessment and the other 2 methods of assessing utility values, the EQ-5D and VAS in women with urodynamically demonstrated stress urinary incontinence (P = 0.0003 and P < 0.0001, respectively). In the combined group of women with urodynamically proven stress, urge, and mixed urinary incontinence, there was also a statistically significant difference between the SG and the generic methods of assessing utility values, the EQ-5D and VAS (P < 0.0001). Mean SSI scores were similar in women with stress incontinence (6.6 [23.5]) and in the combined group (7.9 [3.8]).: Previous studies may have underestimated the health-related quality of life of urinary incontinence.Analysis of EQ-5D data often focuses on changes in utility, ignoring valuable information from other parts of the instrument. The objective was to explore how the utility index, EQ-5D profile, and EQ-VAS captured change in clinical trials of mirabegron, a new treatment for overactive bladder (OAB).Data were pooled from three phase III clinical trials that investigated the efficacy and safety of mirabegron vs placebo. Tolterodine ER 4 mg was included as an active control in one study: (1) placebo, mirabegron 50 mg and 100 mg, and tolterodine 4 mg ER; (2) placebo, mirabegron 50 mg and 100 mg; (3) placebo, and mirabegron 25 mg and 50 mg. Data were collected at baseline, week 4, 8, and 12.Analyses were performed on full analysis and modified intention to treat (ITT) data sets using UK utilities. Analysis controlled for relevant patient characteristics. Analysis of Covariance identified changes from baseline at each time point in utilities and EQ-VAS. Areas Under the Curve were estimated to summarize inter-temporal differences in effect. EQ-5D profile data were analysed using the Paretian Classification of Health Change.In modified ITT analyses, mirabegron 50 mg was superior to tolterodine 4 mg in changes from baseline utilities after 12 weeks (p < 0.05); similarly, AUC results showed mirabegron 50 mg to be superior to tolterodine (p < 0.05) and placebo (p < 0.05) with the benefit already apparent at 4 weeks (p < 0.05). EQ-VAS more consistently indicated superior outcomes: all three mirabegron doses showed statistically significant greater effectiveness compared to tolterodine at 12 weeks. Individual EQ-5D dimensions and the overall profile showed no significant differences between study arms.Mirabegron showed quicker and superior improvement in HR-QoL compared to tolterodine 4 mg ER. A limitation of the study is that EQ-5D was a secondary outcome in the pivotal trials, which were not powered to measure differences on EQ-5D.To compare the cost effectiveness of the three most commonly chosen types of prosthesis for total hip replacement.Lifetime cost effectiveness model with parameters estimated from individual patient data obtained from three large national databases.English National Health Service.Adults aged 55 to 84 undergoing primary total hip replacement for osteoarthritis.Total hip replacement using either cemented, cementless, or hybrid prostheses.Cost (£), quality of life (EQ-5D-3L, where 0 represents death and 1 perfect health), quality adjusted life years (QALYs), incremental cost effectiveness ratios, and the probability that each prosthesis type is the most cost effective at alternative thresholds of willingness to pay for a QALY gain.Lifetime costs were generally lowest with cemented prostheses, and postoperative quality of life and lifetime QALYs were highest with hybrid prostheses. For example, in women aged 70 mean costs were £6900 ($11 000; €8200) for cemented prostheses, £7800 for cementless prostheses, and £7500 for hybrid prostheses; mean postoperative EQ-5D scores were 0.78, 0.80, and 0.81, and the corresponding lifetime QALYs were 9.0, 9.2, and 9.3 years. The incremental cost per QALY for hybrid compared with cemented prostheses was £2500. If the threshold willingness to pay for a QALY gain exceeded £10 000, the probability that hybrid prostheses were most cost effective was about 70%. Hybrid prostheses have the highest probability of being the most cost effective in all subgroups, except in women aged 80, where cemented prostheses were most cost effective.Cemented prostheses were the least costly type for total hip replacement, but for most patient groups hybrid prostheses were the most cost effective. Cementless prostheses did not provide sufficient improvement in health outcomes to justify their additional costs.According to the international literature disease burden of schizophrenia is substantial, however data from Eastern Central Europe is scarce. Our aim was to assess the quality of life and costs of patients with schizophrenia in Hungary.A cross sectional questionnaire survey was performed in 3 hospital based psychiatry centres involving patients with schizophrenia. Demographics, disease severity (Clinical Global Impression, CGI), functional ability (Global Assessment of Functioning, GAF) and general health status (EQ-5D) was assessed. Health care utilisation and aids were surveyed for the past 12 months. Costing was performed from the societal perspective and human capital approach was applied.Altogether 78 patients (female 43.6%) were involved with a mean age of 44.2 (SD=13.1) years, disease duration was >10 years at 49 (62.8%) cases, 66 (84.6%) patients were disability pensioners. Distribution between CGI 3-4-5-6 levels were 12 (16%), 33 (43%), 21 (28%), 10 (13%) patients, respectively, mean GAF was 52.6 (SD=13.9). The average EQ-5D score was 0.64 (SD=0.3) and it was significantly worse than the age-matched general population's score in Hungary (p < 0.01). Mean yearly cost was 13 878 Euros/patient (conversion 1 Euro=280.6 HUF), the rate of direct medical,direct non-medical and indirect costs was 28.5%, 5.4% and 66.1%, respectively. Among direct costs hospitalisation and drug costs were dominant. Total cost correlates with disease severity (CGI).Schizophrenia leads to notable deterioration in health related quality of life and induce high costs to society, mainly due to the productivity loss of the patients. Nevertheless disease related costs in Hungary are lower than in economically more developed European countries. Our study offers basic data about disease burden of schizophrenia in Hungary to support clinical and health policy decision making.The objective of the research was to assess the health related quality of life and productivity of women with overactive bladder.A cross-sectional survey was performed in 5 outpatient centers. General health status (EQ-5D), disease-specific quality of life (King's Health Questionnaire) and productivity (Work Productivity and Activity Impairment) were assessed.Sixty-one women with mean age of 57.7 (SD = 11.6) years have had symptoms for 6.6 (SD = 6.2) years and 57 (93%) had incontinence. The EQ-5D (mean 0.668, SD = 0.314) was not significantly lower than that of the average population (p>0.05). The impact of incontinence and physical limitation (mean 70.5 and 68.9, respectively) were significant, the King's Health Questionnaire-utility was 0.932 (SD = 0.029). Productivity scores of involved patients were: absenteeism 0.04% (SD = 0.11), presenteeism 43.64% (SD = 28.54), overall work impairment 40.97% (SD = 26.91), and other activities 47.72% (SD = 27.24).Applicability of the EQ-5D and King's Health Questionnaire as utility measures in overactive bladder deserve further research. Presenteeism should be considered in the evaluation of the therapy.We explored health differences between population groups who describe their health as excellent, very good, good, fair, or poor.We used data from a population-based survey which included self-rated health (SRH) and three global measures of health: the SF36 general health score (computed from the 4 items other than SRH), the EQ-5D health utility, and a visual analogue health thermometer. We compared health characteristics of respondents across the five health ratings.Survey respondents (N = 1.844, 49.2 % response) rated their health as excellent (12.2 %), very good (39.1 %), good (41.9 %), fair (6.0 %), or poor (0.9 %). The means of global health assessments were not equidistant across these five groups, for example, means of the health thermometer were 95.8 (SRH excellent), 88.8 (SRH very good), 76.6 (SRH good), 49.7 (SRH fair), and 33.5 (SRH poor, p < 0.001). Recoding the SRH to reflect these mean values substantially improved the variance explained by the SRH, for example, the linear r (2) increased from 0.50 to 0.56 for the health thermometer if the SRH was coded as poor = 1, fair = 2, good = 3.7, very good = 4.5, and excellent = 5. Furthermore, transitions between response options were not explained by the same health-related characteristics of the respondents.The adjectival SRH is not an evenly spaced interval scale. However, it can be turned into an interval variable if the ratings are recoded in proportion to the underlying construct of health. Possible improvements include the addition of a rating option between good and fair or the use of a numerical scale instead of the classic adjectival scale.Patients with fibromyalgia (FM) report widespread pain, fatigue, and other functional limitations. This study aimed to provide an assessment of the burden of illness associated with FM in France and its association with disease severity and core domains as defined by Outcome Measures in Rheumatology Clinical Trials (OMERACT) for FM.This cross-sectional, observational study recruited patients with a prior diagnosis of FM from 18 community-based physician offices in France. Patients completed questions about FM impact (Fibromyalgia-Impact Questionnaire [FIQ]), core symptoms (defined by OMERACT), health-related quality of life (EQ-5D), current overall health status (rated on a scale from 0 to 100), productivity, treatment satisfaction, and out-of-pocket expenses related to FM. Site staff recorded patients' treatment and health resource use based on medical record review. Costs were extrapolated from 4-week patient-reported data and 3-month clinical case report form data and calculated in 2008 Euros using a societal perspective. Tests of significance used the Kruskal-Wallis test or Fisher's Exact test where P < 0.05 was considered significant.Eighty-eight patients (mean 55.2 y; female:male 74:14) were recruited. The majority of patients (84.1%) were prescribed medications for FM. Patients mainly described medications as a little/not at all effective (40.0%) or somewhat effective (52.9%). Current Overall Health rating was 52.9 (± 17.8) and FIQ total score was 54.8 (± 17.3). FIQ total score was used to define FM severity, and 17 patients scored 0- < 39 (mild FM), 33 patients 39- < 59 (moderate FM), and 38 scored 59-100 (severe FM). As FM severity level worsened, patients had poorer overall health status and perceived their prescription medications to be less effective. Average cost/FM patient was higher for severe (€10,087) vs. moderate (€6,633) or mild FM (€5,473); however, the difference was not significant.In a sample of 88 patients with FM from France, we found that FM poses a substantial economic and human burden on patients and society. FM severity level was significantly associated with patients' health status and core symptom domains.Spinal cord stimulation is a recognized treatment of chronic neuropathic and vascular pain. Recent data suggest that the use of very high-frequency (HF) stimulation modes does produce analgesia without paresthesia.To compare the efficacy of HF stimulation (HF spinal cord stimulation [HFSCS]) and sham stimulation on the patient's global impression of change (PGIC), pain intensity, and quality of life.Forty patients who have achieved stable pain relief with conventional SCS have been recruited. After randomization, HFSCS and sham are initiated in a double-blind randomized two-period-crossover design.Complete data were available from 33 patients. The primary outcome was a minimal improvement in the PGIC. The proportion of patients responding under HFSCS was 42.4% (14/33 patients) vs. 30.3% (10/33 patients) in the sham condition. The mean benefit of HF vs. sham was not statistically significant with a proportion of 11.2% in favor of HFSCS (p = 0.30). There was a highly statistically significant "period effect," irrespective of treatment received, with 51.5% of patients (N = 17) improving at visit 3 vs. 21.2% (N = 7) at visit 5 (p = 0.006). The mean pain visual analog scale (VAS) on sham was 4.26 vs. 4.35 on HFSCS (p = 0.82) and the mean EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) index with HFSCS was 0.480 vs. 0.463 with sham (p = 0.78).This is the first randomized double-blind study on SCS. HFSCS was equivalent to sham for the primary outcome (improvement of PGIC) as well as for both the secondary outcomes (VAS and EQ-5D index). There was a highly statistically significant "period effect" (p = 0.006) with improved PGIC scores in the first study period regardless of the treatment. The same trend was seen for VAS and EQ-5D. It appears that the effect of HFSCS and sham is equal and only the order in the sequence, not the nature of the treatment, seems to dictate the effect.Although utility-based algorithms have been developed for the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT), their properties are not well known compared with those of generic utility measures such as the EQ-5D. Our objective was to compare EQ-5D and FACT preference-based scores in cancer patients.A retrospective analysis was conducted on cross-sectional data collected from 472 cancer patients who completed both FACT-General and the EQ-5D. Preference-based scores were calculated by using published scoring functions for the EQ-5D (Dolan P. Modeling valuations for EuroQol health states. Med Care 1997;35:1095-108; Shaw JW, Johnson JA, Coons SJ. US valuation of the EQ-5D health states: development and testing of the D1 valuation model. Med Care 2005;43:203-20) and FACT (Dobrez D, Cella D, Pickard AS, et al. Estimation of patient preference-based utility weights from the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General. Value Health 2007;10:266-72; Kind P, Macran S. Eliciting social preference weights for Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung health states. Pharmacoeconomics 2005;23:1143-53; Cheung YB, Thumboo J, Gao F, et al. Mapping the English and Chinese versions of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General to the EQ-5D utility index. Value Health 2009;12:371-6). Scores were compared on the basis of clinical severity by using Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status ratings by physicians and patients. Relative efficiency of each scoring function was examined by using ratios of F statistics.Mean scores for the overall cohort were lowest when using Kind and Macran's FACT UK societal algorithm (0.55, SD 0.09) and highest when using Dobrez et al.'s FACT US patient algorithm (0.83, SD 0.08). Mean difference scores associated with clinical severity, when extrapolated to quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), had a range of 0.18 QALYs gained using FACT (Kind and Macran) to 0.45 QALYs gained using the EQ-5D (Dolan). However, relative efficiencies suggested that FACT (Kind and Macran) scores may provide greater statistical power to detect significant differences based on clinical severity.We found important differences in utilities scores estimated by each algorithm, with FACT-based algorithms tending to underestimate the QALY benefit compared with algorithms based on the EQ-5D. These differences highlight some of the challenges in using disease-specific preference-based measures for decision making despite potentially more relevant disease-specific content.Catheter-associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI) is a major preventable cause of harm for patients in hospital and incurs significant costs for health-care providers such as the UK NHS. Many preventative strategies and measures have been introduced to minimise CAUTI risk, including the use of antimicrobial catheters. However, there is considerable uncertainty regarding their usefulness in terms of reducing symptomatic CAUTI, and whether or not they are cost-effective.Do antimicrobial catheters reduce the rate of symptomatic urinary tract infection (UTI) during short-term hospital use and is their use cost-effective for the UK NHS?A pragmatic multicentre UK randomised controlled trial comparing three catheters as they would be used in the UK NHS: antimicrobial-impregnated (nitrofurazone) and antiseptic-coated (silver alloy) catheters with the standard polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE)-coated catheters. Economic evaluation used a decision model populated with data from the trial. Sensitivity analysis was used to explore uncertainty.Relevant clinical departments in 24 NHS hospitals throughout the UK.Adults requiring temporary urethral catheterisation for a period of between 1 and 14 days as part of their care, predominantly as a result of elective surgery.Eligible participants were randomised 1 : 1 : 1 to one of three types of urethral catheter in order to make the following pragmatic comparisons: nitrofurazone-impregnated silicone catheter compared with standard PTFE-coated latex catheter; and silver alloy-coated hydrogel latex catheter compared with standard PTFE-coated latex catheter.The primary outcome for clinical effectiveness was the incidence of UTI at any time up to 6 weeks post randomisation. This was defined as any symptom reported during catheterisation, up to 3 days or 1 or 2 weeks post catheter removal or 6 weeks post randomisation combined with a prescription of antibiotics, at any of these times, for presumed symptomatic UTI. The primary economic outcome was incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Health-care costs were estimated from NHS sources with QALYs calculated from participant completion of the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D).Outcome analyses encompassed 6394 (90%) of 7102 participants randomised. The rate of symptomatic UTI within 6 weeks of randomisation was 10.6% in the nitrofurazone group (n = 2153; -2.1% absolute risk difference), 12.5% in the silver alloy group (n = 2097; -0.1% absolute risk difference) and 12.6% in the PTFE group (n = 2144). The effect size {odds ratio (OR) [97.5% confidence interval (CI)]} was 0.82 (97.5% CI 0.66 to 1.01) for nitrofurazone (p = 0.037) and 0.99 (97.5% CI 0.81 to 1.22) for silver alloy (p = 0.92) catheters. The nitrofurazone catheters were more likely to cause discomfort during use and on removal. The primary economic analysis suggested that nitrofurazone-impregnated catheters would be, on average, the least costly (> £7 less than PTFE) and most effective option at current NHS prices. There was a 73% chance that nitrofurazone would be cost saving and an 84% chance that the incremental cost per QALY would be < £30,000. At the trial price (£6.46), silver alloy catheters were very unlikely to be cost-effective. These results were unchanged in sensitivity analyses, although when the length of stay cost was excluded the incremental cost per QALY for nitrofurazone against PTFE was £28,602.The trial estimate of clinical effectiveness for nitrofurazone-impregnated catheters was less than the pre-specified minimum absolute risk difference that we considered important (-3.3%), and the surrounding CI included zero, indicating that any reduction in catheter-associated UTI was uncertain. Economic analysis, although associated with uncertainty, suggested that nitrofurazone-impregnated catheters may be cost-effective for the NHS. The trial ruled out the possibility that silver alloy-coated catheters might reach the pre-set degree of clinical effectiveness and that their use was unlikely to be cost-effective. These findings should be considered by patients, clinicians and health-care policy-makers to determine whether or not a change in practice is worthwhile. Future research should be aimed at determining the minimum clinically important difference in terms of CAUTI prevention in comparative trials, and to identify reliable methods which can detect the impact of the intervention on quality of life and other drivers of cost, when the intervention is a subsidiary part of overall treatment plans.To determine 30-day outcome and quality of life after elective endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in octogenarians.From March 2009 to May 2011, 1200 patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms were treated with endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) using the Endurant stent graft were included in the Endurant Stent Graft Natural Selection Global Postmarket Registry (ENGAGE) registry. Among these, 926 (77%) were aged <80 years, and 274 (23%) were aged ≥ 80 years. Quality of life was assessed using composite EuroQoL 5-Dimensions Questionnaire index scores.Gender was unequally distributed, with more female patients among the octogenarians (P = .043). Octogenarians had a significantly higher American Society of Anesthesiologists classification (P < .001) and differed significantly in baseline risk factors. The younger cohort was more likely to smoke (P < .001) and be alcoholics (P = .005). Octogenarians had larger aortic aneurysm (P = .010) and left iliac artery diameters (P = .017) and greater infrarenal neck angulation (P = .01). The technical success rate was >99% for both cohorts. Octogenarians were more often operated on under general anesthesia (P = .028), had a longer procedure duration (P = .001), and an increased length of hospitalization; both total (P < .001) and postprocedure (P < .001). All-cause mortality and major adverse event rates were similar in the two groups (P = .835 and P = .186, respectively). There was no difference in the number of secondary endovascular procedures or aneurysm rupture at 30 days. At discharge, both groups had reduced health status dimensions, except anxiety/depression, when compared with baseline. At 30 days, the octogenarian group had a lower composite EuroQoL 5-Dimensions Questionnaire index compared with the younger group, indicating a slower recovery (0.83 ± 0.20 vs 0.87 ± 0.16; P = .003).Octogenarians can be safely treated using the Endurant stent graft with a high technical rate of success, low perioperative mortality, and no reduction in quality of life. Octogenarians did, however, appear to recover more slowly than younger patients with respect to certain quality of life components. Long-term data are needed to confirm these results.Accurate preoperative localization of nonpalpable breast cancer is essential to achieve complete resection. Radioguided occult lesion localization (ROLL) has been introduced as an alternative for wire-guided localization (WGL). Although efficacy of ROLL has been established in a randomized controlled trial, cost-effectiveness of ROLL compared with WGL is not yet known. The objective of this study was to determine whether ROLL has acceptable cost-effectiveness compared with WGL.An economic evaluation was performed along with a randomized controlled trial (ClinicalTrials.gov, No. NCT00539474). Women (>18 years) with histologically proven nonpalpable breast cancer and eligible for breast conserving treatment with sentinel node procedure were randomized to ROLL (n = 162) or WGL (n = 152). Empirical data on direct medical costs were collected, and changes in quality of life were measured over a 6-month period. Bootstrapping was used to assess uncertainty in cost-effectiveness estimates, and sensitivity of the results to the missing data approach was investigated.In total, 314 patients with 316 invasive breast cancers were enrolled. On average ROLL required the same time as WGL for the surgical procedure (119 vs 118 min), resulted in a 7 % higher reinterventions risk, and 13 % more complications. Quality of life effects were similar (difference 0.00 QALYs 95 % CI (-0.04-0.05). Total costs were also similar for ROLL and WGL (+<euro>26 per patient 95 % CI <euro>-250-311).ROLL is comparable to WGL with respect to both costs and quality of life effects as measured with the EQ5D and will therefore not lead to more cost-effective medical care.There is paucity of data concerning the self-perceptions of health status and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of veterans with multiple chronic medical conditions.Veterans who attended an out-patient power wheelchair clinic at a tertiary VA Medical Center were assessed. Health status and HRQoL were measured by using the EuroQol (EQ-5D) questionnaire. The EuroQol (ED-5D) visual analogue scale (EQ-5DVAS) measured their health state, and average values of the (EQ-5D) questionnaire for mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain or discomfort, and anxiety or depression (EQ-5Dprofile), and the EQ-5Dutility measured their HRQoL.Of the 170 veterans who attended the out-patient clinic, the mean (±SD) age was 69.6±10.7 years, male/female ratio was 163/7, and 88% were non-Hispanic whites. Fifty-four percent were retired, 39% had a registered disabled, and only 3% were employed. Thirty-three percent were current smokers. More than 64% of the veterans had 4 or more co-morbid conditions for which they were receiving treatment. The mean (±SD) initial EQ-5Dprofile, EQ-5Dutility, and EQ-5DVAS scores were 10.3±1.5, 0.75±0.05 and 45.3±18.9, respectively. The social-demographic variables studied (age, gender, education, marital status, employment, co-morbid conditions, and current smoking history) were only able to predict the mobility and anxiety/depression domains of the EQ-5D.Veterans who considered themselves disabled had multiple chronic medical conditions. Age, employment state, and number of chronic medical conditions were associated with poor health state and HRQoL. No relationship was found between health state and HRQoL in this sample of veterans.The European Forsteo Observational Study assessed the clinical fracture incidence, back pain, quality of life (QoL), and treatment persistence amongst post-menopausal women, who were prescribed teriparatide in routine care in eight European countries. We present the results for France, with health-insurance reimbursement criteria channel teriparatide to women with severe disease and limit treatment to 18 months.A representative sample of women initiating teriparatide in France was followed in routine care for 36 months. We described patients' characteristics at baseline and persistence to teriparatide (Kaplan-Meier analysis), fracture incidence, back pain, and QoL (EQ-5D) at baseline, 18 and 36 months follow-up (last-observation-carried-forward (LOCF) and mixed-models-for-repeated-measures (MMRM).One hundred and sixteen rheumatologists included 309 patients, of whom 290 (93.9%) had at least one follow-up visit. Women's mean age (standard deviation) was 74.5 years (7.4) and 296 (95.8%) had greater or equal to two vertebral fractures prior to teriparatide initiation. Clinical fracture incidence, mainly vertebral fractures, decreased around 6 months after teriparatide initiation, and was sustained at 36 months (P=0.013) when most patients were treated by anti-resorptives. Back pain and EQ-5D measures improved significantly at 18 and 36 months (P<0.0001) in the LOCF analyses but did not improve in the EQ-5D VAS measure after covariate adjustment in the MMRM model. Median treatment duration was 17.4 months.French women initiating teriparatide in routine care had severe osteoporosis and showed good treatment persistence, consistent with France's insurance reimbursement criteria. Improvements in fracture risk and back pain began soon after treatment and was maintained at 36 months follow-up.In dislocated proximal tibial fractures, the most frequently used treatment is ORIF with screws and plates. Minimally-invasive techniques using external fixation are an alternative. The aim of this study was to analyse the clinical and radiological results using the Ilizarov technique in both uni- and bicondylar tibial fractures.Thirty consecutive patients with isolated fractures of the proximal tibia were treated with the Ilizarov technique, 11 Schatzker I-IV with 2-3 rings and 19 Schatzker V-VI with 3-4 tibial rings and a femoral, hinged, two-ring extension. Unrestricted weight-bearing was allowed. Pre and post-operatively, conventional radiographs, computerized tomography scans, post-operative pain assessments and complications were evaluated. The knee function was evaluated with the EQ-5D, NHP and KOOS scores, as well as self-appraisal.All the fractures healed. Twenty-five patients achieved a range of motion better than 10-100º. The type I-IV fractures had a shorter operating time and hospital stay, as well as better knee flexion, and the self-appraisal indicated that they tolerated the treatment better. Pin infections occurred in 4% of the pin sites, but only two patients required debridement. Two patients developed compartment syndrome and underwent fasciotomy. No patient complained of functional knee instability. Two patients underwent a total knee arthroplasty because of residual pain. The overall result was judged as satisfactory in twenty-seven patients.The Ilizarov method produces a good clinical outcome and is a valuable treatment alternative in proximal tibial fractures of all types.The management of displaced distal tibial fractures is still controversial. The different internal fixation techniques are often burdened by relatively high complication rates. Minimally invasive techniques with ring fixators have been introduced as an alternative allowing immediate reduction and stabilization, avoiding a staged protocol. The aim of this prospective study was to analyze the clinical and radiographic outcome the Ilizarov technique in patients with distal metaphyseal tibial fractures, with or without intra-articular involvement.Thirty-nine consecutive patients with isolated fractures treated with the Ilizarov technique were followed prospectively for one year. Depending on the type of fracture, 4 or 5 rings were used, in some cases with additional foot extension. Unrestricted weight-bearing was allowed in all cases. Pre- and post-operatively conventional radiographs, post-operative pain assessment and complications were evaluated. The function was evaluated clinically and with self-appraisal protocols: EQ-5D, NHP and FAOS.No patient developed compartment syndrome or deep venous thrombosis. Pin infections were frequent, but they were mostly superficial and were treated with antibiotics and/or the removal of isolated pins. Two patients required debridement. One of them had a deep infection and developed a residual deformity which was corrected and healed after re-operation. Another patient had a severe residual deformity. The fixator was removed after a median period of 16 weeks (range 11-30). The radiological results were poor in 5 patients but the overall self-appraisal showed satisfactory results in 36 patients.The Ilizarov method allowed early definitive treatment with a low complication rate and a good clinical outcome.One method suggested for creating preference-based tariffs for the new five-level EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) questionnaire is combining time trade-off (TTO) and discrete choice exercises. Rank values from previous valuation studies can be used as proxies for discrete choice exercises. This study examined rank and TTO data to determine whether the methods differ in sensitivity to the EQ-5D questionnaire dimensions.We used rank and TTO data for 42 EQ-5D questionnaire health states from the US and UK three-level EQ-5D questionnaire valuation studies, extracting overall ranks of mean TTO and mean rank values, ranging from 1 (best) to 42 (worst). We identified pairs of health states with reversed overall ranks between TTO and rank data and regressed overall rank differences (TTO - ranking) on dummy variables representing impairments on EQ-5D questionnaire dimensions.Forty-three (US) and 41 (UK) health state pairs displayed reversed rank order. Both US and UK regression models on rank differences indicated that respondents rated impairments involving pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression as relatively worse in TTO than in the ranking task.Different dimension sensitivity between TTO and ranking methods suggests that combining them could lead to inconsistent tariffs. Differences could be caused by respondents focusing on the first presented dimensions when ranking states or could be related to the longest endurable time for health states involving pain/discomfort or anxiety/depression. The observed differences call into question which method best represents the preferences of the population.Malnutrition is prevalent in acute hospitals and malnourished patients have an increased risk of morbidity and mortality. Studies of malnutrition and quality of life (QoL) are generally limited by both the nutritional and QoL assessment methods employed. The present study aimed to evaluate the relationship between malnutrition, as assessed using a range of nutritional assessment methods, and QoL, as measured by EuroQol-5D-3L and Short-Form (SF)-36 questionnaires.The study comprised a prospective cross-sectional study of malnutrition and QoL in 149 inpatients aged 65-99 years. Exclusion criteria were: terminal illness, active malignancy, lack of capacity to consent and severe communication difficulties. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient was used to test the association between QoL indices and nutritional markers. QoL scores for those scoring above and below thresholds for nutritional risk were compared. Regression models were created to identify nutritional indices contributing to the variability of QoL.There were significant associations between QoL scores and the Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA)-SF. Clear differences were evident between malnourished and well-nourished patients (on the MNA-SF), those with low and normal arm muscle circumference and those with good and poor physical function. Regression analysis showed that nutritional scores and functional status made independent contributions to the prediction of QoL. The effect on food intake, mobility and psychological stress/acute disease also had a significant influence.Malnutrition risk is linked to a poorer QoL in older people on admission to hospital. Functional status and eating-related factors are major influencers on QoL in this group. These findings reinforce the role of nutrition as a priority with respect to achieving improvements in QoL.Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a rare connective tissue disease. Few data are available on treatment satisfaction, determinants of quality of life, and the health status of dermatology patients with SSc.Cross-sectional study based on 72 consecutive dermatological patients with SSc. Objective clinical data were collected with a physician's questionnaire and subjective data were collected with a patients' questionnaire on disease characteristics, treatment satisfaction, quality of life, depressive symptoms, and Antonovsky's sense of coherence (SOC). We also tested the significance of possible determinants of treatment satisfaction.Treatment satisfaction was 72.0 (± 22.2; VAS 1-100). The assessment of professional competence of the treating physician was the most important determinant of treatment satisfaction and was independent of the patient's age and sex. The assessment of physician empathy, information about the disease, and the patient's own evaluation of the severity of disease were also associated with treatment satisfaction. The mean health-related quality of life (QoL; EQ-5D) was 0.74 (± 0.28) and the mean SOC was 72.6 (± 10.6). 58 % of patients reported moderate to severe pain and 13 % were treated for pain symptoms. In 69 % there was evidence of probable depression (CES-D $ 22); 8 % were on antidepressants.Treatment satisfaction was average and correlated especially with the sense of professional competence of the treating physician. In SSc patients, a diminished health-related quality of life as well as pain and evidence of depression are common and seem to be inadequately treated. However, the SOC indicates a lower general vulnerability. In the future, screening for pain and symptoms of depression should part of routine practice in SSc patients and, if necessary, interdisciplinary care should be initiated.The aim of the study was to assess health-related quality of life (HRQoL) among metastatic soft tissue (mSTS) or bone sarcoma (mBS) patients who had attained a favourable response to chemotherapy. We employed the EORTC QLQ-C30, the 3-item Cancer-Related Symptoms Questionnaire, and the EQ-5D instrument. HRQoL was evaluated overall and by health state in 120 mSTS/mBS patients enrolled in the SABINE study across nine countries in Europe and North America. Utility was estimated from responses to the EQ-5D instrument using UK population-based weights. The mean EQ-5D utility score was 0.69 for the pooled patient sample with little variation across health states. However, patients with progressive disease reported a clinically significant lower utility (0.56). Among disease symptoms, pain and respiratory symptoms are common. This study showed that mSTS/mBS is associated with reduced HRQoL and utility among patients with metastatic disease.Gemcitabine for advanced pancreatic cancer (APC) is palliative and the prognosis is poor, making health-related quality of life (HRQOL) particularly important.We evaluated HRQOL with the EuroQol (EQ-5D™) in patients with APC participating in Cancer and Leukemia Group B 80303, a multicenter, double-blind, randomized trial comparing overall survival (OS) between two treatment arms: gemcitabine with bevacizumab or gemcitabine with placebo.A consecutive subsample of patients was invited to complete the EQ-5D surveys. Because neither clinical nor HRQOL outcomes differed based on the study arm, analyses were pooled. Changes in mean scores from baseline to eight weeks and the prognostic value of the EQ-5D were evaluated.Mean index scores remained stable (0.78 at baseline [n=267], 0.79 at eight weeks [n=186], P=0.34, Wilcoxon signed rank test), attributable to a modest deterioration of physical function domain scores coincident with small improvements in pain and anxiety/depression scores. A small decline in visual analogue scale scores was observed (70.7 vs. 68.2, P=0.026). HRQOL changes within chemotherapy response strata revealed stable index scores but a trend of worsened physical function among patients with disease progression compared with those with stable or improved disease. Visual analogue scale scores trended downward over time irrespective of chemotherapy response status, with a statistically meaningful deterioration in patients who progressed (68.9 vs. 64.4, P=0.029). Baseline scores from both EQ-5D scales were significant predictors of OS in Cox proportional hazard models.Response to gemcitabine treatment in APC is not associated with appreciable improvement of global HRQOL. Small improvements in pain and mood are observed despite progressive functional decline. Those who respond to gemcitabine may experience a slight slowing of functional deterioration.A measurement of quality of life (QoL) should cover the important aspects of daily life and be easy to perform. Ease of performance is especially important for patients with spontaneous subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), since fatigue and cognitive disabilities are known sequeles. EuroQoL (EQ-5D) is a preference-based instrument measuring QoL, based on self-reported health status in five dimensions: Mobility, Self-Care, Usual Activities, Pain/Discomfort and Anxiety/Depression. In the present study EuroQoL was used in patients with aneurysmal SAH (aSAH) in comparison with a Swedish reference population. We also determined the extent to which demographic characteristics and clinical parameters predicted outcome.Seven hundred fifty-five patients with aSAH were studied after a median 12 months. The proportion of patients in the best QoL category for each dimension was compared with the corresponding proportion in an age matched reference population. Disease severity was measured using the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies' SAH grading system and the Fisher scale. The extent to which demographic and clinical factors predicted outcome was evaluated using linear regression.Aneurysmal SAH patients generally had a worse QoL compared with the reference population, in all five dimensions of EQ-5D. In the patient population, disease severity predicted worse outcome in all five dimensions. Female gender and surgery as treatment method (in the case of anterior aneurysms) predicted worse outcome in Usual Activities and Anxiety/Depression.The nature of the sequeles after SAH depends on severity of disease, gender and treatment method. These factors should be more emphasised in planning rehabilitation.To study costs and outcome for serious hand and arm injuries during the first year after the trauma.In patients with a Hand Injury Severity Score (HISS) > 50, DASH and EQ-5D scores as well as factors related to costs within the health care sector, costs due to lost production and total costs were evaluated. Cox-regression analysis stratifying for mechanism of injury was used to analyse return to work.The majority of the 45 included patients (median 42 years 16-64) were men with severe (n = 9) or major (n = 36) injuries with different type of injuries (amputations n = 13; complex injuries n = 18; major nerve injuries/full house n = 13; burn injury n = 1). DASH and EQ-5D decreased and increased, respectively, significantly over time during one year. Total costs (+34%) and costs of lost production were highest for persons injured at work. Factors associated with higher health care costs were age >50 years (+52%), injury at work (+40%) and partial labour market activity (+66%). Costs of lost production had a significant role in total costs of injury. Patients with major injuries had longer duration of sick leave. Patients with severe injuries were more likely to return to work [(RR 3.76 (95% CI 1.38-10.22) from Cox regression, controlling for age, gender and presence of nerve injury].Despite the fact that work environments have constantly improved over the last decades, we found that hand injuries at work were most costly both in terms of health care and costs of lost production, although the severity, i.e. HISS, did not differ from injuries occurring at home or during leisure.PsA is an inflammatory arthritis present in ∼30% of people with psoriasis (PsC). Both conditions have a significant impact on quality of life (QoL). Our objective was to test the hypothesis that people with PsA have poorer QoL than patients with PsC because of the added burden of arthritis, age and comorbidities.Consecutive patients with PsA (CASPAR criteria) and PsC were approached to participate in this study. Patients with PsC were examined by a rheumatologist using a standardized protocol to exclude PsA. Patients completed the HAQ, Medical Outcome Study 36-item Short Form Health Survey, Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), EuroQoL 5 domains (EQ-5D) and Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS). Mean scores were compared and multivariate analyses were conducted to compare the QoL measures between the two patient groups.Two hundred and one patients with PsC and 201 patients with PsA were studied. A significant decrease in QoL for patients with PsA compared with those with PsC was identified by all questionnaires except for the DLQI. This skin-specific questionnaire revealed a lower QoL in patients with PsC. Multivariate analyses for each QoL measure confirmed the results of these analyses. After adjusting for age, sex, duration of PsC, comorbidities, DMARDs and biologic therapy, HAQ and DLQI were independently associated with PsA in a logistic regression.Patients with PsA have a poorer QoL compared with those with PsC as measured by all questionnaires except the DLQI.Cross-sectional clinical measurements.Activity limitation is often persistent after surgically treated carpometacarpal (CMC) joint osteoarthritis (OA).To describe content and concurrent validity, test-retest reliability and internal consistency of the Swedish version of the Patient Specific Functional Scale (PSFS) in patients with surgically treated CMC joint OA.Fifty-eight patients were assessed ten weeks after surgical treatment of CMC joint OA. PSFS, the shorter version of Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (Quick DASH), EuroQol-5Dimensions (EQ-5D), pain intensity, joint movement of CMC joint, grip and pinch strength were assessed. Classification of activities was done according to the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). Spearman correlation, intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) and Kappa were calculated to assess validity, test-retest reliability and internal consistency. The PSFS was administered twice, 2-3 days apart.All of the activity limitations stated in the PSFS could be classified according to the activity component in the ICF. Significant correlations for the PSFS were obtained with pain at rest (r(s) = -0.36) and the Quick DASH (r(s) = -0.28). Test-retest reliability was good, ICC (0.79) and the three items of the PSFS correlated 0.69-0.83 with the total score of PSFS.Content validity was excellent, concurrent validity was low-moderate, as in earlier studies. The PSFS could be a valuable supplement to existing measures in measuring activity limitations in individuals with surgically treated CMC joint OA.Not applicable.Many patients with lung cancer are symptomatic from diagnosis, and quality of life (QoL) may be maximised through the use of specialist palliative care in parallel with other treatments. This study explored anxiety, depression, and QoL in five patients, predominantly male (n=4) and with mean age 74 years, using a 'Breathing Space' clinic over a 4-week period. Breathing Space is a nurse-led multidisciplinary outpatient clinic using integrative care with lung cancer patients. The patients received weekly interventions to improve their wellbeing. Qualitative data were collected to explore their expectations and experiences of the clinic, and quantitative data were captured using the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status Rating (ECOG-PSR), the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), the EQ-VAS, and the EQ-5D. These data were analysed using thematic content analysis and SPSS respectively. It was found that preconceived ideas about clinic attendance were replaced with positive impressions. Anxiety and EQ-VAS scores improved for all patients, and depression scores improved for four of the five patients, although no tests of significance were made. The qualitative data indicated that there were psychosocial benefits to attending the clinic.Among 50,461 postmenopausal women, 1,822 fractures occurred (57% minor non-hip, non-vertebral [NHNV], 26% major NHNV, 10% spine, 7% hip) over 1 year. Spine fractures had the greatest detrimental effect on EQ-5D, followed by major NHNV and hip fractures. Decreases in physical function and health status were greatest for spine or hip fractures.There is growing evidence that NHNV fractures result in substantial morbidity and healthcare costs. The aim of this prospective study was to assess the effect of these NHNV fractures on quality of life.We analyzed the 1-year incidences of hip, spine, major NHNV (pelvis/leg, shoulder/arm) and minor NHNV (wrist/hand, ankle/foot, rib/clavicle) fractures among women from the Global Longitudinal study of Osteoporosis in Women (GLOW). Health-related quality of life (HRQL) was analyzed using the EuroQol EQ-5D tool and the SF-36 health survey.Among 50,461 women analyzed, there were 1,822 fractures (57% minor NHNV, 26% major NHNV, 10% spine, 7% hip) over 1 year. Spine fractures had the greatest detrimental effect on EQ-5D summary scores, followed by major NHNV and hip fractures. The number of women with mobility problems increased most for those with major NHNV and spine fractures (both +8%); spine fractures were associated with the largest increases in problems with self care (+11%), activities (+14%), and pain/discomfort (+12%). Decreases in physical function and health status were greatest for those with spine or hip fractures. Multivariable modeling found that EQ-5D reduction was greatest for spine fractures, followed by hip and major/minor NHNV. Statistically significant reductions in SF-36 physical function were found for spine fractures, and were borderline significant for major NHNV fractures.This prospective study shows that NHNV fractures have a detrimental effect on HRQL. Efforts to optimize the care of osteoporosis patients should include the prevention of NHNV fractures.Resource allocation informed by cost-utility analysis requires that the benefits be comparable across patient groups and interventions. One option is to recommend the use of one generic utility measure, but this raises the issue of comparability when the preferred measure is inappropriate or unavailable. Many cancer trials do not include generic measures such as the EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) questionnaire and instead include condition-specific measures and use these to generate utility estimates. We analyze the comparability of generic, condition-specific, and mapped utility values for a multiple myeloma cancer patient data set.Generic EQ-5D, condition-specific EORTC-8D, and EQ-5D utility values mapped from the EORTC QLQ-C30 were compared by using psychometric and statistical analysis to determine discrimination across severity groups, responsiveness, and agreement.Generic, condition-specific, and mapped utility estimates were responsive over time and show discriminative validity. The EQ-5D had higher responsiveness and detected a greater change across severity groups and treatment periods than did the EORTC-8D but has a higher proportion of responses at full health (12.8%). Differences in the EQ-5D and the EORTC-8D were due at least in part to differences in the classification system. Mapped EQ-5D estimates had a smaller SD and do not reflect the severe range of health states reported by using the EQ-5D.Our findings suggest that condition-specific EORTC-8D or mapped EQ-5D utility estimates are broadly comparable to directly obtained EQ-5D utilities for a multiple myeloma patient data set. However, EORTC-8D estimates captured changes in quality of life for patients in mild health states that were not captured by the EQ-5D, but estimated lower utility gains than did the use of the EQ-5D directly.To evaluate effects of two behavioral weight-loss interventions (in-person, remote) on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) compared to a control intervention.Four hundred and fifty-one obese US adults with at least one cardiovascular risk factor completed five measures of HRQOL and depression: MOS SF-12 physical component summary (PCS) and mental component summary; EuroQoL-5 dimensions single index and visual analog scale; PHQ-8 depression symptoms; and PSQI sleep quality scores at baseline and 6 and 24 months after randomization. Change in each outcome was analyzed using outcome-specific mixed-effects models controlling for participant demographic characteristics.PCS-12 scores over 24 months improved more among participants in the in-person active intervention arm than among control arm participants (P < 0.05, ES = 0.21); there were no other statistically significant treatment arm differences in HRQOL change. Greater weight loss was associated with improvements in most outcomes (P < 0.05 to < 0.0001).Participants in the in-person active intervention improved more in physical function HRQOL than participants in the control arm did. Greater weight loss during the study was associated with greater improvement in all PRO except for sleep quality, suggesting that weight loss is a key factor in improving HRQOL.Major depression is associated with high burden, disability and costs. Non-adherence limits the effectiveness of antidepressants. Community pharmacists (CP) are in a privileged position to help patients cope with antidepressant treatment. The aim of the study was to evaluate the impact of a CP intervention on primary care patients who had initiated antidepressant treatment. Newly diagnosed primary care patients were randomised to usual care (UC) (92) or pharmacist intervention (87). Patients were followed up at 6 months and evaluated three times (Baseline, and at 3 and 6 months). Outcome measurements included clinical severity of depression (PHQ-9), health-related quality of life (HRQOL) (Euroqol-5D) and satisfaction with pharmacy care. Adherence was continuously registered from the computerised pharmacy records. Non-adherence was defined as refilling less than 80% of doses or having a medication-free gap of more than 1 month. Patients in the intervention group were more likely to remain adherent at 3 and 6 months follow-up but the difference was not statistically significant. Patients in the intervention group showed greater statistically significant improvement in HRQOL compared with UC patients both in the main analysis and PP analyses. No statistically significant differences were observed in clinical symptoms or satisfaction with the pharmacy service. The results of our study indicate that a brief intervention in community pharmacies does not improve depressed patients' adherence or clinical symptoms. This intervention helped patients to improve their HRQOL, which is an overall measure of patient status.To evaluate the changes in health-related and vision-related quality of life (HR-QoL and VR-QoL) in patients with Behçet uveitis (BU) receiving infliximab therapy.Twenty patients with recurrent BU attacks were enrolled. All patients were treated with infliximab. We evaluated the mean number of uveitis attacks and the mean score of extraocular manifestations by Behçet disease current activity form (BDCAF) during the 6 months before and the 6 and 12 months after initiation of infliximab. The EuroQol-5D questionnaire (EQ-5D) and the 25-item National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI VFQ-25) were self-administered in all patients before treatment and, 6 and 12 months after treatment. Patients' pre- and post-treatment EQ-5D and NEI VFQ-25 scores were compared.By the 6- and 12-month follow-up, the frequency of uveitis attacks and the BDCAF scores was significantly decreased compared with the 6 months before starting infliximab (p<0.0001). Fully completed questionnaires were received from all patients. Infliximab therapy was associated with a significant improvement of the EQ-5D (p<0.0001), NEI VFQ-25 composite score (p=0.0001), general health score (p=0.0001) and mental health score (p=0.0001). This result shows a significant decrease in inflammatory activity of the disease and consequently improvement in HR-QoL and VR-QoL scores with a rising response pattern in all dimensions.Relief of uveitis attacks and extraocular manifestations by infliximab therapy significantly improved the HR-QoL and VR-QoL in patients with BU.To measure health utility by using the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D) in Thai patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis (PD) and to examine the relationship between the EQ-5D and patient characteristics including sociodemographic and clinical data and end-stage renal disease symptoms.This was a cross-sectional study. About 10 to 12 patients undergoing PD were randomly selected from each of the 10 hospitals located in every part of Thailand. Face-to-face interviews were conducted from October 2008 to February 2009. Patients assessed their health status by using five domains and a visual analogue scale. The EQ-5D score was calculated on the basis of responses to five domains by using the Thai value set. Multiple regression analyses using a stepwise method were employed to model the associations between the EQ-5D score, the VAS score, and patient characteristics.The patients' mean age was 42.2 ± 13.8 years; 53% were male. The mean PD duration was 7.4 ± 6.0 months. The mean EQ-5D and visual analogue scale scores were 0.65 ± 0.23 and 0.65 ± 0.26, respectively. The EQ-5D score was higher than that obtained from a meta-analysis study (0.58). The multivariate regression model showed that education, work status, diabetes, and end-stage renal disease symptoms were significant predictors of the EQ-5D score. The significant predictors of the VAS score included work status, albumin level, use of erythropoietin, and end-stage renal disease symptoms.This Thai PD sample yielded higher EQ-5D scores than did other PD populations. To improve the health utility of Thai patients undergoing PD, the significant factors should be addressed. Because our PD sample had a short PD duration, their long-term health utility should be evaluated in future research.To describe the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) profile of hypertensive population in Pakistan.A cross-sectional descriptive study was undertaken with a cohort of 385 hypertensive patients attending two public hospitals in Quetta city, Pakistan. The EuroQoL EQ-5D scale was used for the assessment of HRQoL. EQ-5D is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcome and is used in the clinical and economic evaluation of health care as well as population health surveys. The HRQoL was scored using values derived from the UK general population survey. P ≤ 0.05 was taken as significant.Two hundred and sixty-five (68.85%) respondents were men with 3.01 ± 0.939 years of history of hypertension. Majority (n = 186, 48.3%) were categorized in age group of 28-37 years with mean age of 39.02 ± 6.596. Education, income and locality had significant relation with HRQoL score. HRQoL was measured poor in our study patients (0.4674 ± 0.2844).Hypertension has an adverse effect on patients' well-being and HRQoL. Results from this study could be useful in clinical practice, particularly in early treatment of hypertension, at point where improving HRQoL is still possible.As a result of long delays for physiotherapy for musculoskeletal problems, several areas in the UK have introduced PhysioDirect services in which patients telephone a physiotherapist for initial assessment and treatment advice. However, there is no robust evidence about the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness or acceptability to patients of PhysioDirect.To investigate whether or not PhysioDirect is equally as clinically effective as and more cost-effective than usual care for patients with musculoskeletal (MSK) problems in primary care.Pragmatic randomised controlled trial to assess equivalence, incorporating economic evaluation and nested qualitative research. Patients were randomised in 2 : 1 ratio to PhysioDirect or usual care using a remote automated allocation system at the level of the individual, stratifying by physiotherapy site and minimising by sex, age group and site of MSK problem. For the economic analysis, cost consequences included NHS and patient costs, and the cost of lost production. Cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out from the perspective of the NHS. Interviews were conducted with patients, physiotherapists and their managers.Four community physiotherapy services in England.Adults referred by general practitioners or self-referred for physiotherapy for a MSK problem.Patients allocated to PhysioDirect were invited to telephone a senior physiotherapist for initial assessment and advice using a computerised template, followed by face-to-face care when necessary. Patients allocated to usual care were put on to a waiting list for face-to-face care.Primary outcome was the Short Form questionnaire-36 items, version 2 (SF-36v2) Physical Component Score (PCS) at 6 months after randomisation. Secondary outcomes included other measures of health outcome [Measure Yourself Medical Outcomes Profile, European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EuroQol health utility measure, EQ-5D), global improvement, response to treatment], wait for treatment, time lost from work and usual activities, patient satisfaction. Data were collected by postal questionnaires at baseline, 6 weeks and 6 months, and from routine records by researchers blind to allocation.A total of 1506 patients were allocated to PhysioDirect and 743 to usual care. Patients allocated to PhysioDirect had a shorter wait for treatment than those allocated to usual care [median 7 days vs 34 days; arm-time ratio 0.32, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.29 to 0.35] and had fewer non-attended face-to-face appointments [incidence rate ratio 0.55 (95% CI 0.41 to 0.73)]. The primary outcome at 6 months' follow-up was equivalent between PhysioDirect and usual care [mean PCS 43.50 vs 44.18, adjusted difference in means -0.01 (95% CI -0.80 to 0.79)]. The secondary measures of health outcome all demonstrated equivalence at 6 months, with slightly greater improvement in the PhysioDirect arm at 6 weeks' follow-up. Patients were equally satisfied with access to care but slightly less satisfied overall with PhysioDirect compared with usual care. NHS costs (physiotherapy plus other relevant NHS costs) per patient were similar in the two arms [PhysioDirect £ 198.98 vs usual care £ 179.68, difference in means £ 19.30 (95% CI -£ 37.60 to £ 76.19)], while QALYs gained were also similar [difference in means 0.007 (95% CI -0.003 to 0.016)]. Incremental cost per QALY gained was £ 2889. The probability that PhysioDirect was cost-effective at a £ 20,000 willingness-to-pay threshold was 88%. These conclusions about cost-effectiveness were robust to sensitivity analyses. There was no evidence of difference between trial arms in cost to patients or value of lost production. No adverse events were detected.Providing physiotherapy via PhysioDirect is equally clinically effective compared with usual waiting list-based care, provides faster access to treatment, appears to be safe, and is broadly acceptable to patients. PhysioDirect is probably cost-effective compared with usual care.The study was performed to evaluate the clinical and technical efficacy of endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) of small saphenous varicosities, particularly in relation to the site of endovenous access.Totally 59 patients with unilateral saphenopopliteal junction incompetence and small saphenous vein reflux underwent EVLA (810 nm, 14 W diode laser) with ambulatory phlebectomies. Small saphenous vein access was gained at the lowest site of truncal reflux. Patients were divided into 2 groups: access gained above mid-calf (AMC, n = 33) and below mid-calf (BMC, n = 26) levels. Outcomes included Venous Clinical Severity Scores (VCSS), Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire (AVVQ), patient satisfaction, complications, and recurrence rates.Both groups demonstrated significant improvement in VCSS, AVVQ, generic quality of life Short Form 36, and EuroQol scores (P < .05) up to 1 year. No differences were seen between AMC and BMC groups for complications (phlebitis: 2 [6%] and 1 [3.8%], P > .05; paresthesia: 2 [6%] and 5 [19%], P = .223) and recurrence (3 [9%] and 1 [3.8%], P = .623), respectively.The site of access in our study does not appear to influence complications specifically neural injury or recurrence rates.There is considerable variation in the use of adjunctive technologies to confirm pedicle screw placement. Although there is literature to support the use of both neurophysiological monitoring and isocentric fluoroscopy to confirm pedicle screw positioning, there are no studies examining the cost-effectiveness of these technologies. This study compares the cost-effectiveness and efficacy of isocentric O-arm fluoroscopy, neurophysiological monitoring, and postoperative CT scanning after multilevel instrumented fusion for degenerative lumbar disease.Retrospective data were collected from 4 spine surgeons who used 3 different strategies for monitoring of pedicle screw placement in multilevel lumbar degenerative disease. A decision analysis model was developed to analyze costs and outcomes of the 3 different monitoring strategies. A total of 448 surgeries performed between 2005 and 2010 were included, with 4 cases requiring repeat operation for malpositioned screws. A sample of 64 of these patients was chosen for structured interviews in which the EuroQol-5D questionnaire was used. Expected costs and quality-adjusted life years were calculated based on the incidence of repeat operation and its negative effect on quality of life and costs.The decision analysis model demonstrated that the O-arm monitoring strategy is significantly (p < 0.001) less costly than the strategy of postoperative CT scanning following intraoperative uniplanar fluoroscopy, which in turn is significantly (p < 0.001) less costly than neurophysiological monitoring. The differences in effectiveness of the different monitoring strategies are not significant (p = 0.92).Use of the O-arm for confirming pedicle screw placement is the least costly and therefore most cost-effective strategy of the 3 techniques analyzed.To assess the performance of the EQ-5D-5L version compared with the standard EQ-5D-3L in a clinical setting targeted at patients with chronic hepatic diseases (CHDs).We introduced the 5L descriptive system into a cost-of-illness study involving patients with different CHDs. The patients completed a questionnaire including the two versions of the EQ-5D, together with other questions related to their condition. We tested the feasibility, the level of inconsistency, the redistribution properties among consistent responses, the ceiling effect, the discriminative power, and the convergent validity of the 5L compared with the 3L system.A total of 1,088 valid patients were recruited: 62% male, 19-89 (median = 59) years old. Patients had chronic hepatitis from HCV (31.8%) or HBV infections (29.3%) or other causes (7.8%), 20.4% had cirrhosis, 11.9% underwent liver transplantation, and 7.8% had hepatic carcinoma. Less than 1% of EQ-5D-5L were returned blank, and 1.6% or less of missing values were calculated on the dimensions of the partially completed questionnaires. The proportion and weight of inconsistent responses (i.e., 3L responses that were at least two levels away from the 5L responses) was 2.9% and 1.2 on average, respectively. Regarding redistribution, 57-65% of the patients answering level 2 with the 3L version redistributed their responses to levels 2 or 4 with the 5L version. A relative 7% reduction of the ceiling effect was found. Furthermore, the absolute informativity increased but the relative informativity slightly decreased in every domain, and the convergent validity with the VAS improved.In a clinical setting involving CHD patients, the EQ-5D-5L was shown to be feasible and with promising levels of performance. Our findings suggest that the 5L performs better in at least some of the properties analyzed, and encourage further research to also test other psychometric properties of this new version of the EQ-5D.Second-line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) improves overall survival. There is a lack of data regarding the impact on patients' overall health condition. This prospective, non-interventional study evaluated performance status (PS) and health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) during second-line pemetrexed treatment in routine clinical practice.Stage III/IV NSCLC patients who initiated second-line pemetrexed (standard vitamin and dexamethasone supplementation) were observed for a maximum of 9 treatment cycles. The primary objective was to evaluate the proportion of patients achieving improvement of Karnofsky Index (KI) of ≥ 10% (absolute) or maintaining KI ≥ 80% after the second treatment cycle ("KI benefit response"). HR-QoL was self-rated using the EuroQoL-5D questionnaire (EQ-5D). Factors potentially associated with KI benefit response were evaluated using logistic regression models.Of 521 eligible patients (73.5% Stage IV, median age 66.3 yrs, 36.1% ≥ 70 yrs, 62.0% with KI ≥ 80%), 471 (90.4%) completed at least 2 treatment cycles. 58.0% (95%CI 53.6%;62.2%) achieved KI benefit response after the second cycle. Patients with baseline KI ≥ 80%, no Grade 3/4 toxicities during the first 2 cycles, or combination regimen as prior first-line therapy were more likely to achieve a KI benefit response. EQ-5D scores improved over time. Grade 3/4 toxicities were reported in 23.8% of patients (mainly fatigue/asthenia 15.9%, neutropenia 8.7%).In this large prospective, non-interventional study of second-line pemetrexed treatment in patients with advanced NSCLC, including 36% elderly patients ( ≥ 70 years), physician-rated PS and self-rated HR-QoL were maintained or improved in the majority of patients.Registered on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00540241) on October 4, 2007.It was the aim of this prospective study to analyze both feasibility and effectiveness of sacral neuromodulation for fecal incontinence and "low anterior resection syndrome" following neoadjuvant therapy for rectal cancer.All patients who underwent sacral neuromdulation following neoadjuvant therapy for rectal cancer (preoperative radiochemotherapy, oncologic rectal resection with total mesorectal excision) were prospectively enrolled in the study. Only patients with failure of conservative treatment and without any evidence of residual or recurrent tumor disease were candidates for sacral neuromdulation which was performed by a two-stage procedure (diagnostic percutaneous test stimulation followed by definite implant). In addition to feasibility, primary end points included success (reduction of incontinent episodes), continence and defecation status (assessed by Cleveland Clinic Incontinence Score and Altomare score), and quality of life (EQ-5D). Anal manometry was performed preoperative and at 12-month follow-up. Follow-up information was derived from clinical examination 3, 6, and 12 months postoperatively.Nine patients (three females, six males) with a mean age of 61 years underwent sacral neuromodulation following neoadjuvant therapy for rectal cancer. Implantation rate was 100 %. No septic morbidity was observed. After a mean follow-up of 12 months, mean Cleveland Clinic Incontinence Score was reduced from 18.2 to 6.0 (p < 0.01). Incontinence episodes were significantly reduced from 7 to 0.5 (per day) and 20 to 8 (per week). Fecal urgency, fragmented defecation, and soiling were improved or resolved in two thirds. Altomare score was significantly reduced from 21.0 to 9.3 (p < 0.01). Anorectal manometry did not correlate with clinical success. Quality of life was significantly improved (EQ-5D generic: 0.42 vs. 0.74, EQ-5D-VAS score: 20 vs. 90, p < 0.01).Preliminary results of sacral neuromodulation in patients with fecal incontinence and symptoms of "low anterior resection syndrome" are promising and enrich the therapeutic modalities if conservative management has failed.We assessed associations between discrimination and health-related quality of life among black and white men and women in the United States.We examined data from the National Health Measurement Study, a nationally representative sample of 3,648 adults aged 35-89 in the non-institutionalized US population. These data include self-reported lifetime and everyday discrimination as well as several health utility indexes (EQ-5D, HUI3, and SF-6D). Multiple regression was used to compute mean health utility scores adjusted for age, income, education, and chronic diseases for each race-by-gender subgroup.Black men and women reported more discrimination compared to white men and women. Health utility tended to be worse as reported discrimination increased. With a few exceptions, differences between mean health utility scores in the lowest and highest discrimination groups exceeded the 0.03 difference generally considered to be a clinically significant difference.Persons who experienced discrimination tended to score lower on health utility measures. The study also revealed a complex relationship between experiences of discrimination and race and gender. Because of these differential social and demographic relationships caution is urged when interpreting self-rated health measures in research, clinical, and policy settings.We assessed associations between discrimination and health-related quality of life among black and white men and women in the United States.We examined data from the National Health Measurement Study, a nationally representative sample of 3,648 adults aged 35-89 in the non-institutionalized US population. These data include self-reported lifetime and everyday discrimination as well as several health utility indexes (EQ-5D, HUI3, and SF-6D). Multiple regression was used to compute mean health utility scores adjusted for age, income, education, and chronic diseases for each race-by-gender subgroup.Black men and women reported more discrimination than white men and women. Health utility tended to be worse as reported discrimination increased. With a few exceptions, differences between mean health utility scores in the lowest and highest discrimination groups exceeded the 0.03 difference generally considered to be a clinically significant difference.Persons who experienced discrimination tended to score lower on health utility measures. The study also revealed a complex relationship between experiences of discrimination and race and gender. Because of these differential social and demographic relationships caution is urged when interpreting self-rated health measures in research, clinical, and policy settings.Rectal prolapse is a profoundly disabling condition, occurring mainly in elderly and parous women. There is no accepted standard surgical treatment, with previous studies limited in methodological quality and size. PROSPER aimed to address these deficiencies by comparing the relative merits of different procedures.In a pragmatic, factorial (2 × 2) design trial, patients could be randomised between abdominal and perineal surgery (i), and suture vs resection rectopexy for those receiving an abdominal procedure (ii) or Altemeier's vs Delorme's for those receiving a perineal procedure (iii). Primary outcome measures were recurrence of the prolapse, incontinence, bowel function and quality of life scores (Vaizey, bowel thermometer and EQ-5D) measured up to 3 years.Two hundred and ninety-three patients were recruited: 49 were randomised between surgical approaches (i); 78 between abdominal procedures (ii); and 213 between perineal procedures (iii). Recurrence rates were higher than anticipated, but not significantly different in any comparison: Altemeier's vs Delorme's 24/102 (24%) and 31/99 (31%) [hazard ratio (HR) 0.81; 95% CI 0.47, 1.38; P = 0.4]; resection vs suture rectopexy 4/32 (13%) and 9/35 (26%) (HR 0.45; 95% CI 0.14, 1.46; P = 0.2); perineal vs abdominal 5/25 (20%) and 5/19 (26%) (HR 0.83; 95% CI 0.24, 2.86; P = 0.8). Vaizey, bowel thermometer and EQ-5D scores were not significantly different in any of the comparisons.No significant differences were seen in any of the randomised comparisons, although substantial improvements from baseline in quality of life were noted following all procedures.To analyze the relationship between the progression of disability and disease activity in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in daily practice.Patients from an observational cohort, IORRA, who completed surveys during 2009-2011 were eligible. Linear regression of disease activity score 28 (DAS28), Japanese version of Health Assessment Questionnaire (J-HAQ), and EQ-5D from baseline were calculated, and the angles of the regression lines were designated DAS28 slope, J-HAQ slope, and EQ-5D slope, respectively, in each patient; averages were compared between treatment groups.A total of 5,038 patients [84.0% female, mean age 59.4 (SD 13.1) years, disease duration 13.2 (9.6) years, DAS28 3.29 (1.14), and J-HAQ 0.715 (0.760)] were analyzed. The average DAS28 slope indicated improvement in all groups, whereas J-HAQ slopes were negative in patients on methotrexate (MTX), biologics, combination biologics/disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), and combination biologics/MTX at baseline, but positive in patients on prednisolone >5 mg/day [0.010 (0.153)] and not on MTX at baseline [0.007 (0.122)], representing a worsening of disability.There is some disparity between improvement of disease activity and progression of disability, suggesting that quality of remission must be considered.To determine the effects on quality of life after starting insulin with, or switching to, insulin analogue therapies in the 24-week, prospective, non-interventional, observational A(1)chieve study conducted across four continents in people with type 2 diabetes.Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) was assessed at baseline and at 24 weeks by the validated EQ-5D questionnaire (visual analogue score [VAS] and five dimensions) in 66,726 people who had started using basal insulin detemir, mealtime insulin aspart (with or without a basal insulin) or biphasic insulin aspart 30.For the overall cohort, reported HRQoL increased significantly by 13.8 points from 63.4 points at baseline to 77.2 points at 24 weeks (p<0.001) (scale 1-100, 100=best health imaginable). Beginning or changing insulin was associated with a significant increase in HRQoL score (+15.0 points and +11.1 points, respectively), resulting in a similar score at 24 weeks in the two populations (77.8 and 75.9 points). Reported HRQoL also increased statistically significantly in people administering any insulin analogue regimen and across all regions, although there were some marked regional differences in reported HRQoL at baseline.Compared with baseline scores, beginning insulin with, or switching to, insulin analogue therapies are associated with increased HRQoL.To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of endosonography (followed by surgical staging if endosonography was negative), compared with standard surgical staging alone, in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who are otherwise candidates for surgery with curative intent.A prospective, international, open-label, randomised controlled study, with a trial-based economic analysis.Four centres: Ghent University Hospital, Belgium; Leuven University Hospitals, Belgium; Leiden University Medical Centre, the Netherlands; and Papworth Hospital, UK.known/suspected NSCLC, with suspected mediastinal lymph node involvement; otherwise eligible for surgery with curative intent; clinically fit for endosonography and surgery; and no evidence of metastatic disease.previous lung cancer treatment; concurrent malignancy; uncorrected coagulopathy; and not suitable for surgical staging.Study patients were randomised to either surgical staging alone (n = 118) or endosonography followed by surgical staging if endosonography was negative (n = 123). Endosonography diagnostic strategy used endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration combined with endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration, followed by surgical staging if these tests were negative. Patients with no evidence of mediastinal metastases or tumour invasion were referred for surgery with curative intent. If evidence of malignancy was found, patients were referred for chemoradiotherapy.The main clinical outcomes were sensitivity (positive diagnostic test/nodal involvement during any diagnostic test or thoracotomy) and negative predictive value (NPV) of each diagnostic strategy for the detection of N2/N3 metastases, unnecessary thoracotomy and complication rates. The primary economic outcome was cost-utility of the endosonography strategy compared with surgical staging alone, up to 6 months after randomisation, from a UK NHS perspective.Clinical and resource-use data were available for all 241 patients, and complete utilities were available for 144. Sensitivity for detecting N2/N3 metastases was 79% [41/52; 95% confidence interval (CI) 66% to 88%] for the surgical arm compared with 94% (62/66; 95% CI 85% to 98%) for the endosonography strategy (p = 0.02). Corresponding NPVs were 86% (66/77; 95% CI 76% to 92%) and 93% (57/61; 95% CI 84% to 97%; p = 0.26). There were 21/118 (18%) unnecessary thoracotomies in the surgical arm compared with 9/123 (7%) in the endosonography arm (p = 0.02). Complications occurred in 7/118 (6%) in the surgical arm and 6/123 (5%) in the endosonography arm (p = 0.78): one pneumothorax related to endosonography and 12 complications related to surgical staging. Patients in the endosonography arm had greater EQ-5D (European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions) utility at the end of staging (0.117; 95% CI 0.042 to 0.192; p = 0.003). There were no other significant differences in utility. The main difference in resource use was the number of thoracotomies: 66% patients in the surgical arm compared with 53% in the endosonography arm. Resource use was similar between the groups in all other items. The 6-month cost of the endosonography strategy was £9713 (95% CI £7209 to £13,307) per patient versus £10,459 (£7732 to £13,890) for the surgical arm, mean difference £746 (95% CI -£756 to £2494). The mean difference in quality-adjusted life-year was 0.015 (95% CI -0.023 to 0.052) in favour of endosonography, so this strategy was cheaper and more effective.Endosonography (followed by surgical staging if negative) had higher sensitivity and NPVs, resulted in fewer unnecessary thoracotomies and better quality of life during staging, and was slightly more effective and less expensive than surgical staging alone. Future work could investigate the need for confirmatory mediastinoscopy following negative endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) and endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA), the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA or EBUS-TBNA separately and the delivery of both EUS-FNA or EBUS-TBNA by suitably trained chest physicians.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN 97311620.This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 16, No. 18. See the HTA programme website for further project information.The United States faces a growing population of older adults and accompanying functional disabilities, coupled with constrained public resources and diminishing informal supports. A variety of interventions that aim to improve client outcomes have been studied, but to date, there is limited translational research that examines the efficacy of moving such interventions from clinical trials to agency settings.A randomized controlled trial was conducted to evaluate a restorative occupational therapy intervention relative to "usual care" among community-dwelling older adults. The intervention included a detailed assessment from a person-environment perspective and provision of adaptive equipment and home modifications where appropriate. The intervention (n = 31) and control groups (n = 29) were evaluated at 3 months and assessed for changes in functional status, home safety, falls, health-related quality of life (HRQoL; EQ5D), depression, social support, and fear of falling; a 4 subgroup analysis also examined outcomes by waiting list status. An informal economic evaluation compared the intervention to usual care.Findings indicated improvements in home safety (p < .0005, b = -15.87), HRQoL (p = .03, b = 0.08), and fear of falling (p < .05, b = 2.22). Findings did not show improvement in functional status or reduction in actual falls. The intervention resulted in a 39% reduction in recommended hours of personal care, which if implemented, could result in significant cost savings.The study adds to the growing literature of occupational therapy interventions for older adults, and the findings support the concept that restorative approaches can be successfully implemented in public agencies.We examined the relationship of hypoglycemic symptoms with health-related quality of life and worry about hypoglycemia among type 2 diabetic patients using oral antihyperglycemic agents (AHA) in the Asia-Pacific region.A total of 2257 type 2 diabetic patients with at least 6 months of oral AHA were enrolled in China, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, and Taiwan. Quality of life was measured with the EuroQol Visual Analog Scale (EQ-VAS) and EuroQol-5 Dimensions questionnaire (EQ-5D), and worry about hypoglycemia with the worry subscale of the Hypoglycemic Fear Survey-II (HFS).The mean (SD) age was 58.7 (10.2) years and HbA(1c) was 7.5% (1.5). The proportion of patients with an HbA(1c) <6.5% and <7% was 24.9% and 41.8%, respectively. Hypoglycemic symptoms in the prior 6 months were reported by 35.8% of patients. Mean scores on the EQ-VAS and the EQ-5D were significantly lower for patients who had hypoglycemic symptoms compared to those who did not (73.6 vs. 76.9, p<0.001; 0.88 vs. 0.90, p<0.0001, respectively), whereas mean score on the HFS was significantly higher (12.5 vs. 6.3, p<0.001). In multivariate models, hypoglycemic symptoms were independently associated with scores on the EQ-5D, EQ-VAS, and HFS (all p ≤ 0.01-0.001). Symptom severity was positively associated with fear of hypoglycemia (all p ≤ 0.001).Hypoglycemic symptoms were associated with reduced quality of life and increased patient worry in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with AHA.Information on the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of patients with genital warts (GW) in populations in mainland China is still limited. The aim of the study was to use a generic instrument to measure the impact of genital warts on HRQoL in men and women in this setting.A multi-centre hospital-based cross-sectional study across 18 centers in China was conducted to interview patients using the European quality of life-5 dimension (EQ-5D) instrument; respondents' demographic and clinical data were also collected.A total of 1,358 GW patients (612 men, 746 women) were included in the analysis, with a mean age of 32.0 ± 10.6 years. 56.4% of the patients reported some problems in the dimension of Anxiety/Depression (highest), followed by Pain/Discomfort (24.7%) and Mobility (3.5%). The overall visual analogue scale (VAS) score of the study population was found to be 65.2 ± 22.0, and the EQ-5D index score was found to be 0.843 ± 0.129 using Japanese preference weights (the Chinese preference was unavailable yet). Patients with lower VAS means and EQ-5D index scores were more often female, living in urban area, and suffering multiple GW (all p values < 0.05), but the values did not differ notably by age (p values > 0.05).The HRQoL of patients with GW was substantially lower, compared to a national representative general population in China (VAS = ~80); the findings of different subgroups are informative for future GW prevention and control efforts.Patients with left ventricular dysfunction whose management is directed by F-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging may have a quality of life (QOL) benefit over standard care.Among 430 patients randomized in the PET and Recovery Following Revascularization (PARR)-2 trial to FDG PET-assisted management vs standard, QOL scores were obtained using the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) in 427 patients at baseline (FDG PET n = 216; standard n = 211) and 355 patients at 12-month follow-up (FDG PET n = 184; standard n = 171). EQ-5D scores between FDG PET and standard arms were compared using mixed model repeated measures (MMRM). Subgroup analysis compared EQ-5D scores between patients in FDG PET who adhered to PET recommendations (Adherence) vs standard using MMRM. Interaction of revascularization with management was assessed using a general linear model.A trend toward higher EQ-5D scores in FDG PET was observed (P = 0.056). Subgroup analysis showed a significant difference favouring adherence (P = 0.04). Higher QOL at 6 months for FDG PET (P = 0.02) and Adherence (P = 0.02) were observed. For revascularization, an interaction with management (FDG PET vs standard) for QOL was observed (6 months: P = 0.01; 12 months: P = 0.1); Adherence (6 months: P = 0.01; 12 months: P = 0.1).FDG PET-directed management improves QOL, at least in the short-term and with adherence to recommendations. This may relate to revascularization, and may indicate better treatment selection using FDG PET.Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal condition with limited treatment options. However, in a previous small study, co-trimoxazole was found to be beneficial.In a double-blind multicentre study, 181 patients with fibrotic idiopathic interstitial pneumonia (89% diagnosed as definite/probable IPF) were randomised to receive co-trimoxazole 960 mg twice daily or placebo for 12 months in addition to usual care. Measurements were made of forced vital capacity (FVC) (primary endpoint), diffusing capacity of carbon monoxide (Dlco) and EuroQol (EQ5D)-based utility, 6-minute walk test (6MWT) and Medical Research Council (MRC) dyspnoea score (secondary endpoints). All-cause mortality and adverse events were recorded (tertiary endpoints).Co-trimoxazole had no effect on FVC (mean difference 15.5 ml (95% CI -93.6 to 124.6)), Dlco (mean difference -0.12 mmol/min/kPa (95% CI 0.41 to 0.17)), 6MWT or MRC dyspnoea score (intention-to-treat analysis). The findings of the per-protocol analysis were the same except that co-trimoxazole treatment resulted in a significant improvement in EQ5D-based utility (mean difference 0.12 (95% CI 0.01 to 0.22)), a reduction in the percentage of patients requiring an increase in oxygen therapy (OR 0.05 (95% CI 0.00 to 0.61)) and a significant reduction in all-cause mortality (co-trimoxazole 3/53, placebo 14/65, HR 0.21 (95% CI 0.06 to 0.78), p=0.02)) compared with placebo. The use of co-trimoxazole reduced respiratory tract infections but increased the incidence of nausea and rash.The addition of co-trimoxazole therapy to standard treatment for fibrotic idiopathic interstitial pneumonia had no effect on lung function but resulted in improved quality of life and a reduction in mortality in those adhering to treatment. ISRCTN22201583.To map the 12-item Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale (MSWS-12) onto the EuroQol 5-dimension (EQ-5D) health-utility index in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients participating in the North American Research Committee on Multiple Sclerosis (NARCOMS) registry.Cross-sectional MSWS-12 to EQ-5D cross-walking analysis.NARCOMS registry spring 2010 biannual update and supplemental survey.North American patients completing both the MSWS-12 and the EQ-5D randomly split into derivation and validation cohorts.Ordinary least squares regression was performed within the derivation cohort, with participants' EQ-5D as the dependent variable. Results of the MSWS-12 were input as independent variable(s) into six regression models. Model goodness-of-fit was subsequently assessed in the validation cohort using the mean absolute error (MAE), root mean square error (RMSE) and the adjusted R(2). The best performing model was refined in the entire cohort and utilised for additional analyses.A total of 3505 NARCOMS participants were included. Their mean±SD EQ-5D and MSWS-12 scores were 0.74±0.18 and 50.8±33.5, respectively, and these assessments were found to be moderately correlated (r=-0.553, p<0.001). The model using all individual MSWS-12 item scores as independent variables was found to have the best fit (MAE=0.109±0.096, RMSE=0.145, adjusted R(2)=0.329). The percentage of EQ-5D estimates within 0.05 and 0.10 of the actual value were 30% and 61%, respectively. This mapping equation was more precise in patients with moderate mobility impairment (MAE=0.087±0.061 at patient-determined disease step (PDDS) of 3-6) and less precise in patients with no (MAE=0.141±0.128 at PDDS of 0-2) or severe mobility impairment (MAE=0.121±0.049 at PDDS ≥7).The EQ-5D scores can be predicted using the MSWS-12 item scores with reasonable precision in North American patients with MS. Prediction estimates were more precise in patients with moderate mobility impairment.To identify the factors responsible for the low health-related quality of life associated with foot ulcers and the relative importance of these factors.A total of 1232 patients with a new foot ulcer, who presented at one of the 14 centres in 10 European countries participating in the Eurodiale study, were included in this cross-sectional study. Patient and ulcer characteristics were obtained as well as results from the Euro-Qol-5D questionnaire, a health-related quality of life instrument with five domains (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression). To analyse the relative importance of comorbidities and ulcer- and patient-related factors for health-related quality of life, linear regression models were used to calculate the relative contributions of each factor to the fit (R(2) ) of the model.Patients reported poor overall health-related quality of life, with problems primarily in the mobility and pain/discomfort domains. Among the comorbidities, the inability to stand or walk without help was the most important determinant of decreased health-related quality of life in all five domains. Among ulcer-related factors, ulcer size, limb-threatening ischaemia and elevated C-reactive protein concentration also had high importance in all domains. The clinical diagnosis of infection, peripheral arterial disease and polyneuropathy were only important in the pain/discomfort domain.The factors that determine health-related quality of life are diverse and to an extent not disease-specific. To improve health-related quality of life, treatment should not only be focused on ulcer healing but a multifactorial approach by a specialized multidisciplinary team is also important.The aim of a rapid response system (RRS) is to improve the timely recognition and treatment of ward patients with deteriorating vital signs The system is based on a set of clinical criteria that are used to assess patient's vital signs on a general ward. Once a patient is evaluated as critical, a medical emergency team is activated to more thoroughly assess the patient's physical condition and to initiate treatment. The medical emergency team included a critical care physician and a critical care nurse.To assess the effect of an RRS on health-related quality of life (HRQOL).Prospective cohort study in surgical patients before and after implementing an RRS. HRQOL was measured using the EuroQol-5 dimensions (EQ-5D) and the EQ visual analogue scale (VAS) at pre surgery and at 3 and 6 months following surgery.No statistical significant effects of RRS implementation on the EQ-5D index and EQ-VAS were found. This was also true for the subpopulation of patients with an unplanned intensive care unit admission. Regarding the EQ-5D dimensions, deterioration in the 'mobility' and 'usual activities' dimensions in the post-implementation group was significantly less compared to the pre-implementation group with a respective mean difference of 0.08 (p = 0.03) and 0.09 (p = 0.04) on a three-point scale at 6 months. Lower pre-surgery EQ-5D index and higher American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status (ASA-PS) scores were significantly associated with lower EQ-5D index scores at 3 and 6 months following surgery.Implementation of an RRS did not convincingly affect HRQOL following major surgery. We question if HRQOL is an adequate measure to assess the influence of an RRS. Pre-surgery HRQOL- and ASA-PS scores were strongly associated with HRQOL outcomes and may have abated the influence of the RRS implementation.We investigated whether antioxidant therapy reduces pain and improves quality of life in patients with chronic pancreatitis.We performed a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial that compared the effects of antioxidant therapy with placebo in 70 patients with chronic pancreatitis. Patients provided 1 month of baseline data and were followed for 6 months while receiving either antioxidant therapy (Antox version 1.2, Pharma Nord, Morpeth, UK) or matched placebo (2 tablets, 3 times/day). The primary analysis was baseline-adjusted change in pain score at 6 months, assessed by an 11-point numeric rating scale. Secondary analyses included alternative assessments of clinical and diary pain scores, scores on quality-of-life tests (the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC-QLQ-C30], Quality of Life Questionnaire-Pancreatic modification [QLQ-PAN28], European Quality of Life questionnaire [EuroQOL EQ-5D], and European Quality of Life questionnaire - Visual Analog Score [EQ-VAS]), levels of antioxidants, use of opiates, and adverse events. Analyses, reported by intention to treat, were prospectively defined by protocol.After 6 months, pain scores reported to the clinic were reduced by 1.97 from baseline in the placebo group and by 2.33 in the antioxidant group but were similar between groups (-0.36; 95% confidence interval [CI], -1.44 to 0.72; P = .509). Average daily pain scores from diaries were also similar (3.05 for the placebo group and 2.93 for the antioxidant group, a difference of 0.11; 95% CI, 1.05-0.82; P = .808). Measures of quality of life were similar between groups, as was opiate use and number of hospital admissions and outpatient visits. Blood levels of vitamin C and E, β-carotene, and selenium were increased significantly in the antioxidant group.Administration of antioxidants to patients with painful chronic pancreatitis of predominantly alcoholic origin does not reduce pain or improve quality of life, despite causing a sustained increase in blood levels of antioxidants.Harvesting bone graft from the iliac crest in spinal fusion surgery is a widely used technique. However, complications can occur and there are also reports of patients with persistent graft site pain after surgery. The aim of this study was to evaluate pain from the donor site (DS) over time, and register associated complications and if it affected health-related quality of life (HRQoL).One hundred and seven patients participating in an RCT between two different methods of reconstruction after cervical decompression were included in this study. One group underwent surgery with bone graft (BG) from the iliac crest and the other with no bone graft (NBG). All patients were evaluated concerning pain at DS and HRQoL preoperatively, at 4 weeks, 3 months and 1 year. Pain was evaluated with visual analog scale (VAS) and HRQoL with EQ-5D.A statistically significant difference was found at all times of follow-up in the BG group compared to preoperative levels and the NBG group. The VAS levels at follow-ups at 3 months and 1 year were however of questionable clinical importance. Two patients in the BG group had superficial wound infections postoperatively and five patients still had sensory disturbance in the area of graft site at 12 months. No major complications were registered. No difference could be seen in EQ-5D at any time of follow-up between the groups.Harvesting of iliac crest bone graft is associated with significant pain. However, at 3 months postoperatively, the negative effect of clinical importance seemed to have disappeared compared to when no bone graft was harvested. The pain from bone graft harvesting does not seem to affect the quality of life at 4 weeks postoperatively and onward.Clinical practice does not reflect current clinical guidelines recommending an early multimodal non-surgical treatment for knee and hip osteoarthritis (OA). The purpose of this study was to examine the feasibility of such an initiative (Good Life with osteoArthritis in Denmark (GLA:D) in persons with mild to moderate knee and/or hip OA-related pain.This was a pilot study with a 36-patient cohort and three-month follow-up. The treatment consisted of two 1.5-hour sessions of patient education and six weeks of individualized supervised neuromuscular exercise according to the previously published NEuroMuscular Exercise programme. The primary outcome was pain on a visual analogue scale (0-100). Secondary outcomes were Euro-Quality-of-Life - 5 Dimensional form (EQ-5D), Arthritis Self-Efficacy Scale (ASES), 30-second chair stand test, timed 20-meter walk and body mass index. Furthermore, compliance was registered.Thirty-four (94%) participants completed the follow-up. There were significant improvements (p < 0.05) in the primary outcome pain (-16 mm), in time in the 20-meter walk test (-0.7 s), in EQ-5D (0.053), in ASES (7.3) and in the number of complete chair stands (1.4). Compliance was high in relation to both patient education and exercise.The pilot study demonstrated that the intervention is feasible and that it is possible to implement GLA:D in clinical care. Introducing GLA:D nationwide could improve the adherence to clinical guidelines and the quality of the treatment of knee and hip OA.Clinimetric properties of the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) in patients with nonspecific chronic low back pain (CLBP) are largely unknown.To study the criterion validity, responsiveness, and minimal clinically important change (MCIC) of EQ-5D in patients with CLBP.Prospective study design carried out in a multispecialist Spine Center in The Netherlands.One hundred fifty-one patients with CLBP.Quality of life (QOL) was measured with EQ-5D, consisting of two scales: one scale measuring QOL with five categorical questions and the other measuring health state on a visual analog scale (0-100). Criterion measures were disability, measured with the Pain Disability Index (PDI) and the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ), and pain intensity, measured with a numeric rating scale (NRS).Pearson correlation coefficients between the EQ-5D and RMDQ, PDI, and NRS were calculated to test the criterion validity. Correlations were interpreted based on predefined criteria. Responsiveness of the EQ-5D was calculated with area under the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve. Minimal clinically important change was calculated with the optimal cutoff point under the ROC curve, and sensitivity and specificity were also calculated.Correlations between EQ-5D and criterion measures ranged between 0.39 and 0.59 and were considered moderate to good. Areas under the ROC curve ranged from 0.59 to 0.72 depending on the external criterion and EQ-5D subscale. The MCIC was 0.03 points for the categorical scales of the EQ-5D and 10.5 points for the EQ-5D visual analog scale.The EQ-5D is a valid and responsive QOL scale in patients with CLBP.A successful outcome after lumbar discectomy indicates a substantial improvement. To use the cutoffs for minimal clinically important difference (MCID) as success criteria has a large potential bias, simply because it is difficult to classify patients who report that they are "moderately improved". We propose that the criteria for success should be defined by those who report that they are "completely recovered" or "much better".A cohort of 692 patients were operated for lumbar disc herniation and followed for one year in the Norwegian Registry for Spine Surgery. The global perceived scale of change was used as an external criterion, and success was defined as those who reported that they were "completely recovered" or "much better". Criteria for success for each of (1) the Oswestry disability index (ODI; score range 0-100 where 0 = no disability), (2) the numerical pain scale (NRS; range 0-10 where 0 = no pain) for back and leg pain, and (3) the Euroqol (EQ-5D; -0.6 to 1 where 1 = perfect health) were estimated by defining the optimal cutoff point on receiver operating characteristic curves.The cutoff values for success for the mean change scores were 20 (ODI), 2.5 (NRS back), 3.5 (NRS leg), and 0.30 (EQ-5D). According to the cutoff estimates, the proportions of successful outcomes were 66% for the ODI and 67% for the NRS leg pain scale.The sensitivity/specificity values for the ODI and leg pain were acceptable, whereas they were very low for the EQ-5D. The cutoffs for success can be used as benchmarks when comparing data from different surgical units.The aim of this study was to compare quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) for patients with rheumatoid arthritis generated from three generic health-related quality-of-life instruments.Patients from 11 Danish rheumatology outpatient clinics were asked to report current health status using the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D), 15D, and six-dimensional health state short form (derived from SF-12) (SF-6D) instruments. Clinical staff provided data on current disease status (C-reactive protein and Disease Activity Score that involves clinical assessment of 28 joints). National mortality data were retrieved from Statistics Denmark. For each of the three instruments, mean index scores were estimated by gender and 5-year age groups. Partial QALE was estimated for the age interval 30 to 79 years for different subsamples.Although the three quality-of-life index scores were highly correlated, there were statistically significant differences between the average index scores from the three instruments. The 15D provided the highest index score and SF-6D the lowest score. For a 30-year-old patient, the partial QALE ranged from 37.9 quality-adjusted life-years using the SF-6D to 45.6 quality-adjusted life-years using the 15D. The QALE for men and women differed by 6.2%, 4.0%, and 5.3% when the calculation was based on EQ-5D, SF-6D, and 15D index scores, respectively. The largest differences were observed when patients were grouped by functional status (Health Assessment Questionnaire score), where the EQ-5D showed a 50% difference in index score between the best and worst functional group while the SF-6D and 15D showed smaller differences (32% and 14%, respectively).This analysis has shown the difference in QALE estimates related to different instruments. The study emphasizes that unless outcome studies use the same instruments and scoring algorithms, the results will not be directly comparable.To investigate whether the presence of Modic changes type I (MC I) found on preoperative MRI scans represent a risk factor for persistent back pain 12 months after surgery amongst patients operated for lumbar disc herniation.Cohort study of 178 consecutive patients operated with lumbar microdiscectomy. Preoperative MRI scans were evaluated by two independent neuroradiologists. Primary outcome measure was the visual analogue scale (VAS) for back pain. Secondary outcome measures were; VAS for leg pain, physical function (Oswestry disability index), and health-related quality of life (EQ-5D), self-reported benefit of the operation and employment status. The presence of MC I was used as exposition variable and adjusted for other risk factors in multivariate analyses.The Modic classification showed a high inter-observer reproducibility. Patients with MC I had less improvement of back pain 12 months after surgery, compared to those who had no or other types of MC, but this negative association no longer showed statistical significance when adjusted for smoking, which remained the only independent risk factor for persistent back pain.Patients with preoperative MC I can expect less but still significant improvement of back pain 1 year after microdiscectomy, but not if they smoke cigarettes.Diabetes with onset in younger ages affects both length of life and health status due to debilitating and life-threatening long-term complications. In addition, episodes and fear of hypoglycaemia and of long-term consequences may have a substantial impact on health status. This study aims to describe and analyse health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in individuals with onset of diabetes at the age of 15-34 years and with a disease duration of 1, 8, 15 and 24 years compared with control individuals matched for age, sex and county of residence.Cross-sectional study of 839 individuals with diabetes and 1564 control individuals. Data on socioeconomic status and HRQoL using EQ-5D were collected by a postal questionnaire. Insulin treatment was self-reported by 94% of the patients, the majority most likely being type 1.Individuals with diabetes reported lower HRQoL, with a significantly lower mean EQ VAS score in all cohorts of disease duration compared with control individuals for both men and women, and with a significantly lower EQ-5Dindex for women, but not for men, 15 years (0.76, p = 0.022) and 24 years (0.77, p = 0.016) after diagnosis compared with corresponding control individuals. Newly diagnosed individuals with diabetes reported significantly more problems compared with the control individuals in the dimension usual activities (women: 13.2% vs. 4.0%, p = 0.048; men: 11.4% vs. 4.1%, p = 0.033). In the other dimensions, differences between individuals with diabetes and control individuals were found 15 and 24 years after diagnosis: for women in the dimensions mobility, self-care, usual activities and pain/discomfort and for men in the dimension mobility. Multivariable regression analysis showed that diabetes duration, being a woman, having a lower education and not being married or cohabiting had a negative impact on HRQoL.Our study confirms the negative impact of diabetes on HRQoL and that the difference to control individuals increased by disease duration for women with diabetes. The small difference one year after diagnosis could imply a good management of diabetes care and a relatively quick adaptation. Our results also indicate that gender differences still exist in Sweden, despite modern diabetes treatment and management in Sweden.Hematopoieticic stem cell transplantation is the only therapeutic option that can cure thalassemia disease. Reduced intensity hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (RI-HSCT) has demonstrated a high cure rate with minimal complications compared to other options. Because RI-HSCT is very costly, economic justification for its value is needed. This study aimed to estimate the cost-utility of RI-HSCT compared with blood transfusions combined with iron chelating therapy (BT-ICT) for adolescent and young adult with severe thalassemia in Thailand.A Markov model was used to estimate the relevant costs and health outcomes over the patients' lifetimes using a societal perspective. All future costs and outcomes were discounted at a rate of 3% per annum. The efficacy of RI-HSCT was based a clinical trial including a total of 18 thalassemia patients. Utility values were derived directly from all patients using EQ-5D and SF-6D. Primary outcomes of interest were lifetime costs, quality adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in US ($) per QALY gained. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA) were conducted to investigate the effect of parameter uncertainty.In base case analysis, the RI-HSCT group had a better clinical outcomes and higher lifetime costs. The incremental cost per QALY gained was US $3,236 per QALY. The acceptability curve showed that the probability of RI-HSCT being cost-effective was 71% at the willingness to pay of 1 time of Thai Gross domestic product per capita (GDP per capita), approximately US $4,210 per QALY gained. The most sensitive parameter was utility of severe thalassemia patients without cardiac complication patients.At a societal willingness to pay of 1 GDP per capita, RI-HSCT was a cost-effective treatment for adolescent and young adult with severe thalassemia in Thailand compared to BT-ICT.To estimate utility values for different levels of migraine pain severity from a United Kingdom (UK) sample of migraineurs.One hundred and six migraineurs completed the EQ-5D to evaluate their health status for mild, moderate and severe levels of migraine pain severity for a recent migraine attack, and for current health defined as health status within seven days post-migraine attack. Statistical tests were used to evaluate differences in mean utility scores by migraine severity.Utility scores for each health state were significantly different from 1.0 (no problems on any EQ-5D dimension) (p < 0.0001) and one another (p < 0.0001). The lowest mean utility, - 0.20 (95% confidence interval [CI]: -0.27 - -0.13), was for severe migraine pain. The smallest difference in mean utility was between mild and moderate migraine pain (0.13) and the largest difference in mean utility was between current health (without migraine) and severe migraine pain (1.07).Results indicate that all levels of migraine pain are associated with significantly reduced utility values. As severity worsened, utility decreased and severe migraine pain was considered a health state worse than death. Results can be used in cost-utility models examining the relative economic value of therapeutic strategies for migraine in the UK.Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) are a major reason for impaired work productivity and sick leave. In 2009, a national rehabilitation program was introduced in Sweden to promote work ability, and patients with MSDs were offered multimodal rehabilitation. The aim of this study was to analyse the effect of this program on health related quality of life, function, sick leave and work ability.We conducted a prospective, observational cohort study including 406 patients with MSDs attending multimodal rehabilitation. Changes over time and differences between groups were analysed concerning function, health related quality of life, work ability and sick leave. Regression analyses were used to study the outcome variables health related quality of life (measured with EQ-5D), and sick leave.Functional ability and health related quality of life improved after rehabilitation. Patients with no sick leave/disability pension the year before rehabilitation, improved health related quality of life more than patients with sick leave/disability pension the year before rehabilitation (p = 0.044). During a period of -/+ four months from rehabilitation start, patients with EQ-5D ≥ 0.5 at rehabilitation start, reduced their net sick leave days with 0.5 days and patients with EQ-5D <0.5 at rehabilitation start, increased net sick leave days with 1.5 days (p = 0.019). Factors negatively associated with sick leave at follow-up were earlier episodes of sick leave/disability pension, problems with exercise tolerance functions and mobility after rehabilitation. Higher age was associated with not being on sick leave at follow-up and reaching an EQ-5D ≥ 0.5 at follow-up. Severe pain after rehabilitation, problems with exercise tolerance functions, born outside of Sweden and full-time sick leave/disability pension the year before rehabilitation were all associated with an EQ-5D level < 0.5 at follow-up.Patients with MSDs participating in a national work promoting rehabilitation program significantly improved their health related quality of life and functional ability, especially those with no sick leave. This shows that vocational rehabilitation programs in a primary health care setting are effective. The findings of this study can also be valuable for more appropriate patient selection for rehabilitation programs for MSDs.Assess the effects of belimumab treatment plus standard systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) therapy on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in patients with active, autoantibody-positive SLE.Patients received standard therapy plus placebo or belimumab 1 or 10 mg/kg in two multicentre, randomised controlled trials of 52 (BLISS-52; N=865) and 76 (BLISS-76; N=819) weeks' duration. Responders were evaluated by SLE Responder Index at week 52. Patient-reported outcome assessments included SF-36, Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-Fatigue, and EQ-5D.Mean SF-36 Physical Component Summary (PCS) scores at week 24 was a major secondary endpoint. Baseline SF-36 scores were 1.5 SDs below age-/sex-matched US norms with similar improvement at week 24 across treatment groups. Mean changes from baseline in PCS scores were significantly (p<0.05) greater with belimumab 1 mg/kg (4.20) and 10 mg/kg (4.18) versus placebo (2.96) in BLISS-52, week 52. In BLISS-76, significantly (p<0.05) greater improvements were seen with belimumab 1 mg/kg in PCS (belimumab 1 mg/kg=4.37, 10 mg/kg=3.41 vs placebo=2.85) and Mental Component Summary (MCS) scores (belimumab 1 mg/kg=3.14, 10 mg/kg=2.70 vs placebo=1.40) at week 52, and in MCS score at week 76 (belimumab 1 mg/kg=3.05, 10 mg/kg=2.28 vs placebo=1.36). In pooled analysis, significantly greater improvements in PCS, SF-36 vitality domain, and FACIT-Fatigue scores at week 52 were evident with both belimumab doses.The clinically meaningful improvements in HRQOL in autoantibody-positive patients with active SLE treated with belimumab and standard therapy are consistent with the reductions in disease activity observed in these trials.NCT00424476, NCT00410384.Swespine, the Swedish National Spine Register, has existed for 20 years and is in general use within the country since over 10 years regarding degenerative lumbar spine disorders. Today there are protocols for registering all disorders of the entire spinal column.Patient-based pre- and postoperative questionnaires, completed before surgery and at 1, 2, 5 and 10 years postoperatively. Among patient-based data are VAS pain, ODI, SF-36 and EQ-5D. Postoperatively evaluation of leg and back pain as compared to preoperatively ("global assessment"), overall satisfaction with outcome and working conditions are registered in addition to the same parameters as preoperatively evaluation. A yearly report is produced including an analytic part of a certain topic, in this issue disc prosthesis surgery. More than 75,000 surgically treated patients are registered to date with an increasing number yearly. The present report includes 7,285 patients; 1-, 2- and 5-year follow-up data of previously operated patients are also included for lumbar disorders as well as for disc prosthesis surgery.For the degenerative lumbar spine disorders (disc herniation, spinal stenosis, spondylolisthesis and DDD) significant improvements are seen in all aspects as exemplified by pronounced improvement regarding EQ-5D and ODI. Results seem to be stable over time. Spinal stenosis is the most common indication for spine surgery. Disc prosthesis surgery yields results on a par with fusion surgery in disc degenerative pain. The utility of spine surgery is well documented by the results.Results of spine surgery as documented on a national basis can be utilized for quality assurance and quality improvement as well as for research purposes, documenting changes over time and bench marking when introducing new surgical techniques. A basis for international comparisons is also laid.This study was conducted to determine the costs and comparative cost-effectiveness of two methods of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair in the Open Versus Endovascular Repair (OVER) Veterans Affairs (VA) Cooperative Study, a multicenter randomized trial of 881 patients.The primary outcomes of this analysis were mean total health care cost per life-year and per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) from randomization to 2 years after. QALYs were calculated from EuroQol (EQ)-5D questionnaires collected at baseline and annually. Health care utilization data were obtained directly from patients and from national VA and Medicare data sources. VA costs were obtained from national VA sources using methods previously developed by the VA Health Economics Resource Center. Costs for non-VA care were determined from Medicare claims data or billing data from the patient's health care providers.After 2 years of follow-up, mean life-years were 1.78 in the endovascular repair group and 1.74 in the open repair group (difference, 0.04; 95% confidence interval [CI], -0.03 to 0.09; P = .29). Mean QALYs were 1.462 in the endovascular group and 1.461 in the open group (difference adjusting for baseline EQ-5D score, 0.006; 95% CI, -0.038 to 0.052; P = .78). Mean graft costs were higher in the endovascular group ($14,052 vs $1363; P < .001), but length of stay was shorter (5.0 vs 10.5 days; P < .001), resulting in a lower mean cost of the hospital admission for the AAA procedure in the endovascular repair group of $37,068 vs $42,970 (difference, -$5901; 95% CI, -$12,135 to -$821; P = .04). After 2 years, total health care costs remained lower in the endovascular group, but the difference was no longer significant (-$5019; 95% CI, -$16,720 to $4928; P = .35). The probability of endovascular repair being less costly and more effective was 70.9% for life-years and 51.4% for QALYs.In this multicenter randomized trial, endovascular AAA repair resulted in lower cost and better survival than open repair after the initial hospitalization for repair; but after 2 years, survival, quality of life, and costs were not significantly different between the two treatments.The aims of the current study were to elucidate the association between body mass index (BMI) and mental disorders and to examine whether these associations are moderated by socio-demographic correlates and comorbid physical disorders.The Singapore Mental Health Study (SMHS) surveyed adult Singapore residents (Singapore citizens and permanent residents) aged 18 years and above. The survey was conducted from December 2009 to December 2010. The diagnoses of mental disorders were established using the World Mental Health Composite International Diagnostic Interview version 3.0 (CIDI 3.0). BMI was calculated using height and weight which were self-reported by respondents. The Euro-Qol-5Dimensions (EQ-5D) was used to measure the health related quality of life (HRQoL) in the sample.Six thousand and six hundred sixteen respondents completed the study (response rate of 75.9%) and constituted a representative sample of the adult resident population in Singapore. Being underweight was associated with both lifetime (adjusted odds ratio (OR): 2.3) and 12-month obsessive-compulsive disorder (adjusted OR: 4.4). Obesity was associated with 12-month alcohol dependence (adjusted OR: 8.4). There were no significant differences in the EQ-5D indices or the EQ-VAS scores among the four BMI groups in the population.Our findings are somewhat unique and different from those reported in research from Western countries. There is a need for further cross-cultural research to explore and identify genetic, metabolic and cultural differences that underlie the interaction between obesity and mental illnesses.Few studies have established Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY) losses associated with mental and chronic physical conditions in the community. The aim of the current study was to establish and compare the QALY losses associated with select mental and chronic physical conditions in Singapore.The Singapore Mental Health Study was a cross-sectional epidemiological survey of a nationally representative sample. The diagnosis of psychiatric disorders was established using the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI 3.0) and health related quality of life (HRQoL) was measured using the Euro-Qol-5D (EQ-5D).Pain conditions, hypertension and MDD were associated with the highest loss of QALYs in Singapore at a population level. The marginal effect on HRQoL by - Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) and Bipolar Disorder was higher than the effect of any physical condition.The presence of chronic physical diseases was established using a check-list rather than with more objective measures and UK tariffs were used as local tariffs are not available and this might introduce some cultural bias.QALY losses associated with psychiatric disorders were high, emphasizing the need for recognizing them as major public health concerns and the need for appropriate resource allocation.Many statistical analyses, clinical trials and cost-utility analyses designed to measure the impact of a particular disease on utility scores often overlook the important influence of co-morbidity burden.This study aims to examine the impact of co-morbidity burden on EQ-5D index scores in a nationally representative sample of the US.The pooled 2001 and 2003 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey was used. The total number of chronic conditions for each individual was calculated based on Clinical Classification Categories codes. Spline regression was used to identify nonlinear age effects: individuals were separated into four quartiles based on age. Censored least absolute deviation was used to regress EQ-5D index scores on age and chronic co-morbidity, controlling for income, gender, race, ethnicity, education, physical activity and smoking status. Interactions between age and chronic conditions were also explored.The coefficients for chronic co-morbidities were highly statistically significant with large magnitudes for those with two or more chronic conditions (coefficient two chronic conditions=-0.16; coefficient nine chronic conditions=-0.28). After controlling for chronic co-morbidities and other confounders, age was not statistically significant except for those aged>58 years and the magnitude of this coefficient was very small (coefficient aged>58 years=-0.0006). The interactions between age and chronic co-morbidity were significant, but the deleterious impact of their interaction was largely dominated by the existence and number of chronic conditions.Chronic conditions have a significant deleterious impact on EQ-5D index scores that is much more pronounced than age and other sociodemographic and behavioural characteristics. Future analyses and cost-utility models should incorporate the impact of multiple morbidity.To describe and compare health-related quality of life (HRQoL) among homeless persons with a general population sample in Stockholm County, 2006, and to analyse the importance of certain social determinants of health among the homeless.Face-to-face interviews with 155 homeless persons and a postal survey to a general population sample, mainly based on the same questionnaire, including questions on social determinants of health and HRQoL measured with the EQ-5D.Chronic illness was three times more common among the homeless. HRQoL was worse among homeless persons than in the general population sample: the homeless reported more problems, especially more severe problems, in all the EQ-5D dimensions and had considerably lower EQ-5D(index) and EQ(VAS) score than the general population. Most problems were reported in the dimension anxiety/depression. Among the homeless, longer duration and more severe degree of homelessness lowered HRQoL, but few determinants were statistically significantly related to HRQoL. Having mental disease significantly lowered HRQoL.This study was an attempt to include hard-to-reach groups in an assessment of population health. Homeless persons had considerably worse HRQoL than the general population and reported most problems in the dimension anxiety/depression. Some diseases may contribute to causing homelessness; others may be seen as consequences. Homeless persons are a vulnerable group in society. Further interview studies are needed based on larger sample of homeless persons to explore health determinants such as sex, age, socioeconomic factors, duration and degree of homelessness, and health-related behaviours among the homeless persons.The objective of this study was to examine the quality of life in female Turkish patients with overactive bladder (OAB). The investigation was conducted as a cross-sectional study between January and April 2010. Two hundred eighty female patients responded to the Overactive Bladder Validated Eight-Question Screener, the OAB disease-specific health-related quality-of-life scale (OAB questionnaire (OAB-q)) and the general quality-of-life scale EuroQol Five-Dimensional Questionnaire (EQ-5D) for the study. Of the 280 patients, 38.9% was classified as having OAB. The mean age was 47.0 ± 8.7. All of the quality-of-life domains (coping, concern, sleep and social) and OAB-q total scores in women with OAB were significantly worse than in women without OAB (P < 0.001 for all). Similarly, the EQ-5D(index) and EQ-5D(VAS) scores for women with OAB were significantly worse than for women without OAB (P < 0.001 and P = 0.006, respectively). OAB-q and EQ-5D(index) scores in menopausal women were significantly lower than non-menopausal women (P < 0.05) in patients with OAB. In conclusion, OAB negatively affects quality of life in Turkish women. However, many women's quality of life can be improved if the patients seek medical treatment. Thus, nurses should encourage the patients to seek medical support in order to cope with health-related quality-of-life problems.Several studies have investigated outcomes after disc surgery. However, the occurrence of kinesiophobia has not been investigated previously in patients after disc herniation surgery. In this cross-sectional study, we investigated kinesiophobia in patients who had been treated surgically for lumbar disc herniation, and we related the results to established outcome measures.10-34 months after surgery, questionnaires were sent to 97 patients who had undergone standardized open discectomy. Outcome measures included Tampa scale for kinesiophobia (TSK); Oswestry disability index (ODI); European quality of life in 5 dimensions (EQ-5D); visual analog scale (VAS) for leg and back pain, work disability, and patient satisfaction; Zung self-rating depression scale (ZDS); pain catastrophizing scale (PCS); and a self-efficacy scale (SES).36 of 80 patients reported having kinesiophobia. There were statistically significant differences in ODI, EQ-5D, VAS leg and back pain, ZDS, PCS, and SES between patients with and without kinesiophobia.Half of the patients suffered from kinesiophobia 10-34 months after surgery for disc herniation. These patients were more disabled, had more pain, more catastrophizing thoughts, more symptoms of depression, lower self-efficacy, and poorer health-related quality of life than patients without kinesiophobia.The resource use and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) spasticity are not well known. The purpose of this study was to obtain estimates of resource utilization, costs, and HRQoL, for patients with different levels of MS spasticity in southern Sweden.Cross-sectional data on spasticity severity (using a Numerical Rating Scale, NRS), resource use and HRQoL (using EQ-5D) were collected using a patient questionnaire and chart review. Patients were recruited through a clinic in southern Sweden. The study reviews direct medical, direct non-medical and indirect costs.Total costs were estimated to €114,293 per patient and year. Direct medical costs (€7898) accounted for 7% of total costs. Direct non-medical costs (€68,509) accounted for 60% of total costs. Total costs increased with severity of spasticity: for patients with severe spasticity, the total cost was 2.4 times greater than those for patients with mild spasticity. HRQoL decreased as spasticity increases.The results of this study show that MS spasticity is associated with a substantial burden on society in terms of costs and HRQoL.Vertebral fractures could lead to reduced physical, social and mental functioning, and loss of personal independence. Therefore, during the treatment of osteoporosis, it has become necessary to examine the changes in everyday functioning, well-being and health related quality of life (HRQOL). To that effect, this study aims to translate, culturally adapt, and validate the Serbian version of Quality of Life Questionnaire of the European Foundation for Osteoporosis (QUALEFFO-41) for patients with vertebral fractures.Nine female patients with osteoporosis participated in the pre-validation study. A validation, case-control study included two groups of female patients: one that consisted of 50 female patients with osteoporosis, and with at least one vertebral fracture, and another one that consisted of 50 control patients with osteoporosis but without fractures. They completed the QUALEFFO-41 and the EuroQol group questionnaire with five dimensions (EQ-5D) twice within a month. The validation study examined internal consistency, concurrent validity, test-retest reliability, sensitivity and specificity.During the pre-validation study, three of the items in the QUALEFFO-41 were slightly changed. Afterwards, during the validation study, the statistically significant differences (adjusted for: age, duration of menopause, current employment and marital status) in the mean values of all domains and total scores between the groups were noted. For the case group, the internal consistency of the QUALEFFO-41 domains and of total questionnaire was above 0.70. The test-retest reliability was tested by the intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) that were in range 0.87 - 0.96 for the case, and 0.15 - 0.83 for the control group. Correlations between the total scores of the QUALEFFO-41 and the EQ-5D health state value, for both groups were negative and statistically significant (r = -0.78, p<0.001 and r = -0.73, p<0.001, respectively). The QUALEFFO-41 had a better prediction of the value of HRQOL of cases compared to the generic questionnaire EQ-5D (the AUC difference was 0.099, p = 0.013).The Serbian QUALEFFO-41 version is reliable, valid, sensitive and predictive for examinations of HRQOL in patients with prevalent vertebral fractures and can be used in further studies.Quality of life (QOL) is a concern for patients with lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). In this study, QOL was examined using the 5-item EuroQol (EQ-5D).QOL and activities of daily living (ADL) were surveyed for 91 patients who visited 18 medical institutions in our prefecture and were diagnosed with LSS-associated intermittent claudication. A second survey was performed after ≥6 weeks for 79 of the subjects to evaluate therapy with limaprost (an oral prostaglandin E1 derivative) or etodolac (an NSAID). Symptoms, maximum walking time, QOL, ADL items, and relationships among these variables were investigated for all 91 patients. Leg pain, leg numbness, and low back pain while walking were surveyed by use of VAS scores (0-100).Leg pain, leg numbness, and low back pain while walking (VAS ≥25) were present in 83.5, 62.6, and 54.9 % of the patients in the first survey, and approximately half of the patients had a maximum walking time <15 min. The mean EQ-5D utility value for QOL was 0.59 ± 0.12. This value was significantly associated with maximum walking time (p = 0.030) based on classification of patients into groups with walking times <7.5, 7.5-15, 15-30, and >30 min, showing that maximum walking time affected health-related QOL. Of the 79 patients who completed the second survey, 56 had taken limaprost and 23 (control group) had received etodolac. Limaprost improved possible walking time, reduced ADL interference, and significantly increased the EQ-5D utility score, whereas no significant changes occurred in the control group. Maximum walking time was prolonged by ≥10 min and the EQ-5D utility value was improved by ≥0.1 points in significantly more patients in the limaprost group than in the control group.According to the findings of this survey, at an average of 8 weeks after administration limaprost improved symptoms, QOL, and ADL in LSS patients whereas treatment with an NSAID reduced pain but did not have any other effects.Evaluation of the socioeconomic value of medical intervention and establishment of the resources necessary for clinical practice are important for new developments in medical technology. The aim of this study was to determine the socioeconomic value of on-line hemodiafiltration (HDF).The subjects were 24 patients who underwent hemodialysis (HD) (9 HDF, 15 HD) for chronic renal failure. A total of 288 dialysis interventions were observed for 4 weeks in three clinics. Cost-effectiveness was evaluated based on quality-adjusted life years (Qaly) and a visual analog scale.EuroQOL-5D (0.776 ± 0.015) and visual analog scale (67.9 ± 1.2) in the HDF group were higher than those in the HD group at baseline. The incremental cost utility ratio for HDF was 641.7 (JPY 10,000/Qaly) based on Qaly (0.776 ± 0.015) and reimbursement for medical fees (JPY 4,982,736 ± 7,852), and was lower than the incremental cost utility ratio for HD.These results suggest that on-line HDF could be cost-effective.Gemcitabine and capecitabine (gem-cap), gemcitabine and erlotinib (gem-e), and folfirinox (5-fluorouracil-leucovorin-irinotecan-oxaliplatin) are new treatment options for metastatic pancreatic cancer, but they are also more expensive and potentially more toxic than gemcitabine alone (gem). We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis of these treatment options compared with gem.A Markov model was constructed to examine costs and outcomes of gem-cap, gem-e, folfirinox, and gem in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer from the perspective of a government health care plan. Ontario health economic and costing data (2010 Canadian dollars) were used. Efficacy data for the treatments were obtained from the published literature. Resource utilization data were derived from a chart review of consecutive metastatic patients treated for pancreatic cancer at Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, 2008-2009, and supplemented with data from the literature. Utilities were obtained by surveying medical oncologists across Canada using the EQ-5D. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (icers) were calculated.The icers for gem-cap, gem-e, and folfirinox compared with gem were, respectively, CA$84,299, CA$153,631, and CA$133,184 per quality-adjusted life year (qaly). The model was driven mostly by drug acquisition costs. Given a willingness-to-pay (wtp) threshold greater than CA$130,000/qaly, folfirinox was most cost-effective treatment. When the wtp threshold was less than CA$80,000/qaly, gem alone was most cost-effective. The gem-e option was dominated by the other treatments.The most cost-effective treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer depends on the societal wtp threshold. If the societal wtp threshold were to be relatively high or if drug costs were to be substantially reduced, folfirinox might be cost-effective.Identify predictors of quality of life (QOL) in patients with any form of cardiac arrhythmia (CA).Data from the Medical Panel Expenditure Survey were analyzed from 2004 to 2009. Patients aged ≥18 with any form of CA (identified via ICD-9-CM codes) were included. Primary outcomes included the physical and mental component scores (PCS and MCS) of the Short-Form 12 version 2 (SF-12) and EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) utility scores (US version). Patient demographics included insurance status, urban status, geographical region, federal poverty level, education, comorbidities, and disease-related risk factors of CA.Approximately 5,750,440 individuals had CA. Non-Hispanic Whites had the highest SF-12 MCS (mean 50.9; p < 0.001 across racial groups) and utility scores (mean 0.76; p < 0.001 across racial groups). Patients with both private and public insurance had significantly higher PCS (p = 0.001) and MCS (p < 0.001) in comparison with patients only covered by public insurance. Patients on antiarrhythmic agents had higher SF-12 MCS (51.4 vs. 48.4; p < 0.001) compared to individuals not on antiarrhythmic agents.Significantly lower QOL existed in specific subpopulations (e.g., patients with only public health insurance, racial/ethnic minorities, and those not exposed to antiarrhythmic agents) within the CA population.Objectives. The objectives of this study were to elicit health utility scores for moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) using members of the general public. Methods. Five-hundred Canadians were chosen randomly to participate in a telephone interview. The EQ-5D was administered to estimate the health utility score for respondents' current health status (i.e., no AD) and for a hypothetical moderate AD health state. Regression analyses were conducted to explain the perceived utility decrement associated with AD. Results. The mean age of the respondents was 51 years, 60% were female, and 42% knew someone with AD. Respondents' mean EQ-5D scores for their current health status and a hypothetical moderate AD were 0.873 (SD: 0.138) and 0.638 (SD: 0.194), respectively (P < 0.001). Age, gender, and education were significant factors explaining this decrement in utility. Conclusion. Members of the general public may serve as an alternative to patients and caregivers in the elicitation of health-related quality of life in AD.To examine how the severity of postoperative pain affects patient's health-related quality of life (HRQoL) at 1 week following surgery and to compare two generic validated HRQoL instruments.Patients undergoing general or orthopaedic surgery at the Royal London Hospital were randomly sampled. The following patient outcome data were collected EQ-5D (EuroQoL) pre-operatively and the Revised American Pain Society Patient Outcome Questionnaire (APS-POQ-R) at 24 hours postoperation; and EQ-5D, Short-Form-12 (SF-12) and APS-POQ-R at 7 days postoperation. The degree of association between pain and HRQoL was assessed using Pearson's correlation coefficient and multivariate generalized linear regression models.Of the 228 patients included, 166 patients provided data at 7 days. Sixteen percent reported severe pain ≥ 50% of the day at 7 days. The severity of pain on both the APS-POQ-R pain severity and interference and affective impairment domains at 7 days was highly correlated with a decrease in HRQoL as assessed by the SF-12 Physical Component Score (PCS), SF-12 Mental Component Score (MCS), and EQ-5D scores (r = -0.34 to -0.61, P < 0.0001). Multivariate regression analyses showed that irrespective of confounding factors (eg, age, gender, and pre-operative HRQoL) patients with severe postoperative pain experience important reductions in both physical and mental well-being domains of their HRQoL.A proportion of patients continue to experience severe pain at 7 days postoperatively, even after minor surgery. HRQoL is strongly associated with the level of pain and provides additional data on the impact of postsurgery pain on patient's function and well-being. Additional studies are needed to elucidate the interaction between pain severity and HRQoL during the peri-operative period.Better self management could improve quality of life (QoL) and reduce hospital admissions in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but the best way to promote it remains unclear.To explore the feasibility, effectiveness and cost effectiveness of a novel, layperson-led, theoretically driven COPD self-management support programme.Pilot randomised controlled trial in one UK primary care trust area.Patients with moderate to severe COPD were identified through primary care and randomised 2:1 to the 7-week-long, group intervention or usual care. Outcomes at baseline, 2, and 6 months included self-reported health, St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), EuroQol, and exercise.Forty-four per cent responded to GP invitation, 116 were randomised: mean (standard deviation [SD]) age 69.5 (9.8) years, 46% male, 78% had unscheduled COPD care in the previous year. Forty per cent of intervention patients completed the course; 35% attended no sessions; and 78% participants completed the 6-month follow-up questionnaire. Results suggest that the intervention may increase both QoL (mean EQ-5D change 0.12 (95% confidence interval [CI] = -0.02 to 0.26) higher, intervention versus control) and exercise levels, but not SGRQ score. Economic analyses suggested that with thresholds of £20 000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, the intervention is likely to be cost-effective.This intervention has good potential to meet the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence criteria for cost effectiveness, and further research is warranted. However, to make a substantial impact on COPD self-management, it will also be necessary to explore other ways to enable patients to access self-management education.To evaluate the validity of cancer-specific and generic preference-based instruments to discriminate across different measures of cancer severities.Patients with breast (n = 66), colorectal (n = 57), and lung (n = 61) cancer completed the EORTC QLQ-C30 and the FACT-G, as well as three generic instruments: the EQ-5D, the SF-6D, and the HUI2/3. Disease severity was quantified using cancer stage, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG-PS) score, and self-reported health status. Comparative analyses confirmed the multi-dimensional conceptualization of the instruments in terms of construct and convergent validity.In general, the instruments were able to discriminate across severity measures. The instruments demonstrated moderate to strong correlation with each other (r = 0.37-0.73). Not all of the measures could discriminate between different groups of disease severity: the EQ-5D and SF-6D were less discriminative than the HUI2/3 and the cancer-specific instruments.The cancer-specific and generic preference-based instruments demonstrated to be valid in discriminating across levels of ECOG-PS scores and self-reported health states. However, the usefulness of the generic instruments may be limited if they are not able to detect small changes in health status within cancer patients. This raises concerns regarding the appropriateness of these instruments when comparing different cancer treatments within an economic evaluation framework.The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of Neydharting mud-pack therapy on the clinical parameters and quality of life in patients with knee osteoarthritis. In this double-blind, randomized, follow-up study on 53 patients with knee osteoarthritis, one group received hot mud-pack therapy, whereas the other (control) group was treated with hot packs of a substance manufactured on 10 occasions for 2 weeks. Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC), EuroQoL-5D quality-of-life measure and need for analgesics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were recorded before treatment, at the end of treatment (at Week 2), and at Weeks 6 and 12. The WOMAC and the EQ5D quality-of-life scores improved from the baseline to the end of treatment in both groups, and further improvement was observed during the follow-up period (p < 0.001, respectively, in both groups). The need for medications for knee joint pain improved in both groups, and these changes were significant only in the mud-treated group (p < 0.001), but not in the control group (p = 0.106) compared to baseline. The number of patients requiring medications for knee joint pain showed a continuous downward trend at the subsequent post-treatment visits by the mud-treated group, and these changes became significant by Visit 4 compared to baseline (p = 0.016). The control group showed only temporary and not significant decrease. The difference was not significant between the groups in any of the outcome parameters at any visits. The Neydharting mud pack has a favorable effect on the clinical parameters, quality of life, and need for medications in patients with knee osteoarthritis. To evaluate the chemical effect, the number of patients should be increased.This study evaluates whether a low preoperative quality of life (QoL), measured with the EuroQoL instruments EQ-5D and EQ-visual analogue scale (VAS) can be used as a predictor of mortality after elective isolated myocardial revascularization.A total of 2501 patients, with a mean age of 65.3 ± 9.4 (range 18-93) years and a mean additive EuroSCORE of 2.7 ± 2.1 (0-12), undergoing an elective isolated coronary artery bypass graft between January 2002 and June 2011 completed preoperative EQ-5D and EQ-VAS.Hospital mortality [1.0% (25/2501 patients)] and 30-day mortality [1.2% (29/25 patients)] were the studied outcomes. The EQ-5D was 0.69 ± 0.26 (-0.30 to 1.0) with a median of 0.77 and the EQ-VAS was 59.7 ± 22.4 (0-100) with a median of 60. Regression analysis showed a significant correlation between hospital mortality and EQ-5D (P = 0.016) and EQ-VAS (P = 0.033). There is a significant correlation between 30-day mortality and EQ-5D (P = 0.048), but not for EQ-VAS (P = 0.06). The c-statistics (95% confidence interval) for EQ-5D and EQ-VAS for predicting hospital mortality are 0.36 (0.24-0.46) and 0.33 (0.23-0.42), respectively. The c-statistics for predicting 30-day mortality are 0.39 (0.30-0.49) for EQ-5D and 0.35 (0.26-0.44) for EQ-VAS.Based on these results, we conclude that, in isolation, poor low preoperative EQ-5D and EQ-VAS scores do not contribute to deciding which patients should undergo cardiac surgery.The study aimed at prospectively evaluating the evolution of asthma control in Italy, to evaluate the reasons for lack of asthma control, perceived quality of life (QoL) and association with level of asthma control, the impact of pharmacological treatment, the number of exacerbations and the healthcare resource consumption.PRISMA (PRospectIve Study on asthMA control) was an observational study performed in asthmatic patients including a cross-sectional phase and a 12-month prospective phase. Asthma control was assessed with the Asthma Control Test™ (ACT) and QoL was evaluated with EuroQoL-5D questionnaire filled in and collected during 5 clinic visits together with all the other data.The prospective phase included 1017 patients with uncontrolled (55.7%) or partly controlled asthma (44.3%). Out of the 739 patients evaluable after 12 months, 22.2% achieved full asthma control (ACT score = 25) and 58.7% reached a good control (ACT score: 20-24). The improvement in asthma control was associated with improved QoL and reduced hospital visits. The main reasons for lack of asthma control were comorbidities, continued exposure to irritants/triggers and poor adherence to therapy. The frequency of exacerbations was lower in patients with controlled asthma.A fixed combination therapy with an inhaled corticosteroid and a long-acting β2 agonist was reported by 77.0% of patients. A better asthma control and improved QoL were achieved with extrafine beclomethasone/formoterol compared to either budesonide/formoterol or fluticasone/salmeterol.An improvement in asthma control and QoL can be achieved during a 1-year monitoring in a real life setting. Extrafine beclomethasone/formoterol was associated with significant benefit in terms of asthma control and QoL compared to large-particles combinations.ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT01110460.To assess construct validity of the Patient Global Impression scales (Severity [PGI-S], Bother [PGI-B] and Improvement [PGI-I]) for symptoms of detrusor overactivity (DO).Secondary analysis of a randomised trial of onabotulinum toxin A.Eight UK urogynaecology departments.A total of 240 women with DO refractory to medical treatment randomised to receive 200 iu onabotulinum toxin A or placebo in the RELAX trial and followed up for 6 months.Urinary diaries and disease-specific quality of life (QoL) questionnaires were completed at baseline and during follow up. Discriminatory ability of the PGI-S, PGI-B and PGI-I scales to identify symptom severity and change in severity was assessed by comparing mean diary and QoL outcomes across the response categories, analysed by one-way analysis of variance.Data were available from 237 women (98.8%) for validation of PGI-S and PGI-B at baseline, and 192 women (80%) at 6 weeks follow up for validation of PGI-I. Leakage episodes (P = 0.01), urgency episodes (P = 0.019), urgency severity (P = 0.012), and QoL scores (all P < 0.001) were greater in women with more severe problems on PGI-S. Similar results were seen for PGI-B: leakage (P = 0.051), urgency episodes (P < 0.001), urgency severity (P < 0.001), and QoL scores (all P < 0.001). PGI-I responses demonstrated significant relationships with size of change of all variables (P < 0.001). The generic instrument EQ-5D had weaker relationships (PGI-S, P = 0.09; PGI-B, P = 0.004; PGI-I, P = 0.06), suggesting that it was less sensitive.The PGI scales are robust and valid instruments to assess disease severity, bother and improvement after treatment in women with detrusor overactivity.This review examines generic preference-based measures and their ability to reflect health-related quality of life in patients with visual disorders.A systematic search was undertaken to identify clinical studies of patients with visual disorders where health state utility values were measured and reported. Data were extracted to assess the validity and responsiveness of the measures. A narrative synthesis of the data was undertaken due to the heterogeneity between different studies.There was considerable heterogeneity in the 31 studies identified in terms of patient characteristics, visual disorders, and outcomes reported. Vision loss was associated with a reduction in scores across the preference-based measure, but the evidence on validity and responsiveness was mixed. The EQ-5D health-related assessment instrument's performance differed according to condition, with poor performance in age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and diabetic retinopathy. The more limited evidence on the HUI-3 instrument found it performed best in differentiating between severity groups of patients with glaucoma, AMD, cataracts, and diabetic retinopathy. One study reported data on the SF-6D instrument and showed it was able to differentiate between patients with AMD.The performance of the EQ-5D in visual disorders was mixed. The HUI-3 seemed to perform better in some conditions, but the evidence on this and SF-6D is limited. More head to head comparisons of these three measures are required. The new five-level version of EQ-5D may do better at the milder end of visual function.Fabry disease is a rare, X-linked, inherited lysosomal storage disorder that can be treated with the enzymes agalsidasealfa (Replagal) and agalsidase beta (Fabrazyme). Currently, there is a global shortage of agalsidase beta, and this has increased global demand for agalsidase alfa. We assess the feasibility of switching patients on agalsidase beta treatment to agalsidase alfa instead.This analysis is part of an ongoing observational study involving 11 patients with Fabry disease in whom the treatment was switched from agalsidase beta (1 mg/kg every other week) to agalsidase alfa (0.2 mg/kg every other week). Data were collected for a minimum of 36 months: 24 months before and 12 months after the switch. Serial data were evaluated with respect to renal function, cardiac mass, pain, quality of life, and tolerability/safety.Indexes of renal function (estimated glomerular filtration rate) and cardiac mass (left-ventricular mass index), pain (Brief Pain Inventory), and quality of life (EuroQoL-Dimensions) clearly showed that, in patients switched to agalsidase alfa, Fabry disease stabilized during the 12 months of follow-up.Despite the limitations of this preliminary observational study, it was found that all the patients maintained disease stability when treated with agalsidase alfa, as evidenced by estimated glomerular filtration rate, left-ventricular mass index,pain scores, and quality-of-life indexes, throughout 12 months of follow-up.A variety of instruments are used to measure health related quality of life. Few data exist on the performance and agreement of different instruments in a depressed population. The aim of this study was to investigate agreement between, and suitability of, the EQ-5D-3L, EQ-5D Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-5D VAS), SF-6D and SF-12 new algorithm for measuring health utility in depressed patients.The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and Bland and Altman approaches were used to assess agreement. Instrument sensitivity was analysed by: (1) plotting utility scores for the instruments against one another; (2) correlating utility scores and depressive symptoms (Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)); and (3) using Tukey's procedure. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis assessed instrument responsiveness to change. Acceptability was assessed by comparing instrument completion rates.The overall ICC was 0.57. Bland and Altman plots showed wide limits of agreement for each pair wise comparison, except between the SF-6D and SF-12 new algorithm. Plots of utility scores displayed 'ceiling effects' in the EQ-5D-3L index and 'floor effects' in the SF-6D and SF-12 new algorithm. All instruments showed a negative monotonic relationship with BDI, but the EQ-5D-3L index and EQ-5D VAS could not differentiate between depression severity sub-groups. The SF-based instruments were better able to detect changes in health state over time. There was no difference in completion rates of the four instruments.There was a lack of agreement between utility scores generated by the different instruments. According to the criteria of sensitivity, responsiveness and acceptability that we applied, the SF-6D and SF-12 may be more suitable for the measurement of health related utility in a depressed population than the EQ-5D-3L, which is the instrument currently recommended by NICE.The EuroQol (EQ-5D) is a widely used comprehensive measure of health-related quality of life. There has been no study that has evaluated the health-related quality of life before and after the surgical reconstruction of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) cervical spine lesions using EQ-5D.The present study aimed to evaluate the improvement of quality of life before and after surgical reconstruction of rheumatoid cervical spine using EQ-5D, and the surgical outcomes of cervical spine affected by RA.A retrospective study of the patients who underwent surgical reconstruction of cervical disorders in RA.Twenty-five patients (seven men, 18 women, mean age 62.2 years) who underwent surgical reconstruction of cervical disorders in RA were enrolled.Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score and EQ-5D.Clinical symptoms were evaluated before surgery and at 2 years after surgery by measuring the JOA score. We also investigated health-related quality of life before surgery and outcome at 2 years after surgery using the EQ-5D questionnaire.Mean observation period was 46.3 months. Mean JOA score significantly improved from 9.1 ± 4.5 points before surgery to 12.4 ± 2.8 at the 2 years after surgery (p=.0001). All the EQ-5D data were improved at the 2 years after surgery, compared with the data before surgery; especially, pain (p=.005), usual activity (p=.005), mobility (p=.008), and anxiety/depression (p=.02) were significantly improved. Utility weight was 0.37 ± 0.27 before surgery and 0.56 ± 0.26 at the 2 years after surgery, showing significant improvement at the 2 years after surgery compared to before surgery (p=.002).The surgical reconstruction of rheumatoid cervical spine has been demonstrated to improve patients' health-related quality of life.The study aims to assess Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) among Hepatitis B (HB) patients and to identify significant predictors of the HRQoL in HB patients of Quetta, Pakistan.A cross sectional study by adopting European Quality of Life scale (EQ-5D) for the assessment of HRQoL was conducted. All registered HB patients attending two public hospitals in Quetta, Pakistan were approached for study. Descriptive statistics were used to describe demographic and disease related characteristics of the patients. HRQoL was scored using values adapted from the United Kingdom general population survey. EQ-5D scale scores were compared with Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis test. Standard multiple regression analysis was performed to identify predictors of HRQoL. All analyses were performed using SPSS v 16.0.Three hundred and ninety HB patients were enrolled in the study. Majority of the participants (n = 126, 32.3%) were categorized in the age group of 18-27 years (36.07 ± 9.23). HRQoL was measured as poor in the current study patients (0.3498 ± 0.31785). The multivariate analysis revealed a significant model (F(10, 380) = 40.04, P < 0.001, adjusted r(2) = 0.401). Educational level (β = 0.399, p = 0.025) emerged as a positive predictor of HRQoL. Age, gender, occupation, income and locality were not predictive of better quality of life in HB patients.Hepatitis B has an adverse affect on patients' well-being and over all HRQoL. The study findings implicate the need of health promotion among HB patients. Improving the educational status and imparting disease related information for the local population can results in better control and management of HB.There is no controversy about the need for surgical treatment of the displaced surgical neck fractures of the humerus, but there are few studies comparing the results of the three preferred types of surgical treatment. To expand the knowledge needed in decision making, a patient series is reviewed using health related quality of life (HRQoL), functional and radiographic data from patients treated with percutaneous pinning, locking plates or intramedullary nails.Retrospective observational cohort study of patients who underwent internal fixation of fractures of the surgical neck of the humerus between 2004 and 2009 (mean follow-up 40.67 ± 17.93 months). Fifty patients fulfilled the inclusion criteria (mean age 70.04 ± 13.15 years). Nine had been treated by percutaneous pinning, fifteen with locking plates and twenty-six with intramedullary nails. We compared the results between the three groups of the HRQoL with the EuroQol5D questionnaire; the functional capacity of the operated and non-operated shoulder with the Constant score; and the radiographic result with plain X-rays.Forty-eight patients had achieved fracture healing. The plating and nailing groups had a better fracture reduction compared with the pinning group (p <0.05). The EuroQol-5D did not discriminate between groups (mean 0.65 ± 0.26; p >0.05). The mean Constant score of the K-wire group (47.67 ± 22.42) was lower than those of the plating (82.45 ± 17.69) and nailing groups (72.72 ± 15.96) (p = 0.001), with no differences between plates and nails. There was positive correlation between the EuroQol-5D result and the Constant score (r = 0.490; p <0.005). The fractured shoulder was worse in each item of the Constant score than the non-operated one in patients treated with pins and nails. Patients treated with plates achieved similar results between operated and non-operated shoulder in three items: arm positioning, internal and external rotation. Seventeen patients (six re-operated) had some kind of complication during follow-up.Patients treated with pinning achieved a worse radiographic and Constant score than patients treated with plates or nails. Although we did not find differences between the plating and nailing groups, patients treated with plates got a Constant score more similar to the non-operated shoulder.Acute kidney injury (AKI) increases mortality and morbidity of critically ill patients. Mortality of patients treated with renal replacement therapy (RRT) is high. We aimed to evaluate the nationwide incidence of RRT-treated AKI in Finland, hospital and six-month mortality, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of these patients.We performed a retrospective cohort study including all general intensive care unit (ICU) admissions in Finland in 2007 through 2008. We identified patients who had received RRT due to AKI (RRT patients) and compared these patients to ICU patients who were not treated with RRT (non-RRT patients). The HRQoL was assessed by the EQ-5D index and visual analogue scale (VAS).We analysed the final cohort of 24,904 patients, of whom 1,686 received RRT due to AKI. The incidence of RRT-treated AKI was 6.8% (95% confidence interval (CI) 6.5 to 7.1%) among ≥15-year-old general ICU patients, which corresponds to a yearly population-based incidence of 19.2 per 100,000 (95% CI 17.9 to 20.5/100,000). According to RIFLE (Risk, Injury, Failure) classification 26.6% (95% CI 26.0 to 27.2%) of patients had AKI (RIFLE R-F). Hospital and six-month mortality of RRT patients were 35.0% and 49.4%. At six-months, RRT patients perceived their health as good as non-RRT patients by VAS.The population-based incidence of AKI treated with RRT was 19.2 per 100,000 in Finland and 6.8% of all general ICU patients. The hospital and six-month mortality rates were lower than previously reported for ICU-treated RRT patients.Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained are basic elements in the cost-utility evaluations of health care. Different HRQoL instruments produce different scores for the same patient, and thus also a different number of QALYs. We examined the effect of these factors on the number of QALYs gained and the cost per QALY in the critical care setting.In 937 patients having been treated in the critical care setting in the Helsinki University Central Hospital the HRQoL scores were measured by the EQ-5D and 15D 6 and 12 months after start of treatment, and QALYs were calculated using four different sets of assumptions regarding recovery from disease.The mean number of QALYs gained during the first year after treatment ranged from 0.178 ± 0.206 to 0.550 ± 0.508 and the consequent cost per QALY from €38,405 to €118,668 depending on HRQoL instrument and assumptions used in the calculations regarding recovery from disease.The HRQoL instrument and the assumptions employed regarding recovery from disease have a great influence on the results of cost-utility analyses and should, therefore, be explicitly described in studies reporting QALYs. Furthermore, a common consensus on which calculation method should be used within critical care would be urgently needed.Estimates regarding the impact of secondary cardiovascular events on health status in patients treated for cardiovascular disease are scarce and of limited accuracy.We obtained individual patient data on health status (EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire) and secondary cardiovascular events (death, myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accidents, amputation, extracranial bleeding, and reinterventions) observed during 12 to 36 months of follow-up. Data originated from five completed clinical trials on revascularization in coronary heart disease (n = 2593) or peripheral arterial disease (PAD; n = 1379). We used linear mixed-effects modeling to estimate the acute impact of the initial secondary event and the health status before and after the event.A total of 1595 patients had at least one secondary event. Loss of health status just before the event ranged from 0.36 utility score for amputation in women with PAD to zero for cerebrovascular accident in men with PAD. In patients with coronary heart disease, pre-event health status loss ranged from 0.34 for extracranial bleeding in women to 0.10 for myocardial infarction in women. The acute impact of secondary events ranged from minor deterioration for cerebrovascular accident (-0.03) to improvement after all other events, ranging from +0.01 for occlusion to +0.22 for amputation. Women had significantly lower pre-event scores than did men: -0.04 to -0.10 in coronary heart disease and -0.04 to -0.27 in PAD. Older patients had mostly large but insignificantly lower pre-event scores than did younger patients (range +0.04 to -0.67).Secondary events after revascularization in patients with cardiovascular disease are associated with health status loss before the event, while acute impact of the events was mostly small.Cost-effectiveness studies of lifestyle interventions in people at risk for lifestyle-related diseases, addressing 'real-world' implementation, are needed. This study examines the cost-effectiveness of a primary care intervention from a societal perspective, compared with provision of health brochures, alongside a randomized controlled trial.Adults aged 30-50 years, at risk of type 2 diabetes (T2DM) and/or cardiovascular disease (CVD), were recruited from twelve general practices in The Netherlands. They were randomized to the intervention (n = 314) or control group (n = 308). The intervention consisted of up to six face-to-face counseling sessions with a trained practice nurse, followed by three-monthly sessions by phone. Costs were collected using three-monthly retrospective questionnaires. Quality of life was measured with the EuroQol-5D-3L, at baseline, 6, 12 and 24 months. Nine-year risk of developing T2DM and ten-year risk of CVD mortality were estimated using the ARIC and SCORE formulae, respectively, based on measurements at baseline and 24 months while applying a fixed age of 60 years at both time points.Small, statistically non-significant differences in effects were found between the intervention and control group with regard to risk scores and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) gained. The mean difference in costs between the intervention and control group was €-866 (95% confidence interval -2372; 370). The probability that the intervention was cost-effective varied from 93% at €8000/QALY to 88% at €80,000/QALY.A primary care lifestyle intervention aimed at adults at increased risk of T2DM and/or CVD could result in cost savings over a two-year period. However, due to methodological uncertainty no advice can be given regarding the implementation of the intervention in Dutch general practices.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN59358434.Effectiveness of Internet-based self-management in patients with asthma has been shown, but its cost-effectiveness is unknown. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis of Internet-based asthma self-management compared with usual care.Cost-effectiveness analysis alongside a randomized controlled trial, with 12 months follow-up. Patients were aged 18 to 50 year and had physician diagnosed asthma. The Internet-based self-management program involved weekly on-line monitoring of asthma control with self-treatment advice, remote Web communications, and Internet-based information. We determined quality adjusted life years (QALYs) as measured by the EuroQol-5D and costs for health care use and absenteeism. We performed a detailed cost price analysis for the primary intervention. QALYs did not statistically significantly differ between the Internet group and usual care: difference 0.024 (95% CI, -0.016 to 0.065). Costs of the Internet-based intervention were $254 (95% CI, $243 to $265) during the period of 1 year. From a societal perspective, the cost difference was $641 (95% CI, $-1957 to $3240). From a health care perspective, the cost difference was $37 (95% CI, $-874 to $950). At a willingness-to-pay of $50,000 per QALY, the probability that Internet-based self-management was cost-effective compared to usual care was 62% and 82% from a societal and health care perspective, respectively.Internet-based self-management of asthma can be as effective as current asthma care and costs are similar.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN79864465.A five-level version of the EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) descriptive system (EQ-5D-5L) has been developed, but value sets based on preferences directly elicited from representative general population samples are not yet available. The objective of this study was to develop values sets for the EQ-5D-5L by means of a mapping ("crosswalk") approach to the currently available three-level version of the EQ-5D (EQ-5D-3L) values sets.The EQ-5D-3L and EQ-5D-5L descriptive systems were coadministered to respondents with conditions of varying severity to ensure a broad range of levels of health across EQ-5D questionnaire dimensions. We explored four models to generate value sets for the EQ-5D-5L: linear regression, nonparametric statistics, ordered logistic regression, and item-response theory. Criteria for the preferred model included theoretical background, statistical fit, predictive power, and parsimony.A total of 3691 respondents were included. All models had similar fit statistics. Predictive power was slightly better for the nonparametric and ordered logistic regression models. In considering all criteria, the nonparametric model was selected as most suitable for generating values for the EQ-5D-5L.The nonparametric model was preferred for its simplicity while performing similarly to the other models. Being independent of the value set that is used, it can be applied to transform any EQ-5D-3L value set into EQ-5D-5L index values. Strengths of this approach include compatibility with three-level value sets. A limitation of any crosswalk is that the range of index values is restricted to the range of the EQ-5D-3L value sets.Etanercept is well tolerated and effective in moderate to severe psoriasis; however, data on patient-reported outcomes (PROs) in Canadian patients remain limited.To assess PROs in Canadian patients with moderate to severe psoriasis receiving etanercept in an open-label trial more representative of general clinical practice than traditional research studies.This 1-year, multicenter, single-arm study enrolled 246 patients. Patients received etanercept 50 mg subcutaneously twice weekly for 3 months and then 50 mg once weekly for 9 months. Primary and safety end points were reported previously. Change from baseline to month 12 for the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), EuroQoL-5D, and Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM) are secondary outcomes reported here. Post hoc analyses of PROs are also reported.Mean ± standard deviation (SD) DLQI total score improved from 13.7 ± 6.1 at baseline to 3.9 ± 5.6 at month 12. By month 12, 75% of patients achieved a clinically meaningful improvement in the DLQI (≥ 5-point improvement or a score of 0). Fifty-three to 86% of patients reported improvement or complete improvement in the six DLQI subscales. The mean ± SD EuroQoL-5D total score improved from baseline (0.67 ± 0.25) to month 12 (0.83 ± 0.25). The TSQM scores showed improvement in global satisfaction, effectiveness, and convenience after 3 months.Etanercept was associated with improved PROs and increased treatment satisfaction over 1 year.Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and its treatment impact patients' health-related quality of life (HRQL).To report on treatment impact and predictors of HRQL among treatment-naïve patients with genotype 1 chronic HCV infection who received 12-week telaprevir (T) with 24 (T12PR24) or 48 weeks (T12PR48) peginterferon alpha-2a/ribavirin (PR), or 48 weeks of PR in the ADVANCE study.The EQ-5D-3L (EQ-5D) questionnaire (index range: 0-1) was completed at baseline and weeks 4, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 72. Patients indicated their health state on five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Descriptive statistics for the EQ-5D index and descriptive system and area under the curve from baseline to week 12 were calculated. Predictors of EQ-5D index were identified using multivariate analyses.Data from 722 patients were included. The mean EQ-5D index decreased during the first 12 weeks and returned to baseline by week 72 (T12PR24 by week 36) across treatments. In multivariate analysis, sustained virological response (SVR) at week 72 was associated (P < 0.0001) with improved EQ-5D index [mean; SVR+ (0.90), SVR- (0.86)], a 4% difference, within the published range of minimal clinically important difference.Post hoc analyses of data from ADVANCE suggested that HRQL worsened during the first 12 weeks of therapy and returned to baseline by week 72 across treatments. Improvements were observed early following completion of a 24-week treatment (T12PR24). Telaprevir combination therapy was associated with slightly higher reductions in HRQL during the first 12 weeks (vs. PR). SVR was a statistically significant and meaningful predictor of HRQL at week 72.This study explores the impact of perceived social support and sense of coherence as positive resources for health-related quality of life in multimorbid primary care patients. We analysed cross-sectional survey data on health-related quality of life (EQ-5D), perceived social support (FSozU-K22), sense of coherence (SOC-L9), social demographics and self reported morbidity of 103 multimorbid patients from 10 general practices in Germany. A multiple linear regression model was used to determine the impact of social support and sense of coherence on the health-related quality of life while controlling for age, sex, educational level, marital status and number of chronic conditions. In the final regression model, higher sense of coherence scores were associated with higher health-related quality of life scores (standardized ß 0.34, p < 0.001) whereas a higher number of chronic conditions was associated with lower health-related quality of life scores (standardized ß -0.41, p < 0.001). In the bivariate model, higher perceived social support was associated with higher health-related quality of life scores (standardized ß 0.35, p < 0.001), whereas the model failed to show a significant association after controlling for sense of coherence which is a potential resource for improving health-related quality of life in multimorbid primary care patients. It emerged as a significant element contributing to the prediction of health-related quality of life. This issue may indicate the importance of internal resources for multimorbid patients.Little is known as to how health-related quality of life (HRQoL) when measured by generic instruments such as EQ-5D differ across smokers, ex-smokers and never-smokers in the general population; whether the overall pattern of this difference remain consistent in each domain of HRQoL; and what implications this variation, if any, would have for economic evaluations of tobacco control interventions.Using the 2006 round of Health Survey for England data (n = 13,241), this paper aims to examine the impact of smoking status on health-related quality of life in English population. Depending upon the nature of the EQ-5D data (i.e. tariff or domains), linear or logistic regression models were fitted to control for biology, clinical conditions, socio-economic background and lifestyle factors that an individual may have regardless of their smoking status. Age- and gender-specific predicted values according to smoking status are offered as the potential 'utility' values to be used in future economic evaluation models.The observed difference of 0.1100 in EQ-5D scores between never-smokers (0.8839) and heavy-smokers (0.7739) reduced to 0.0516 after adjusting for biological, clinical, lifestyle and socioeconomic conditions. Heavy-smokers, when compared with never-smokers, were significantly more likely to report some/severe problems in all five domains--mobility (67%), self-care (70%), usual activity (42%), pain/discomfort (46%) and anxiety/depression (86%). 'Utility' values by age and gender for each category of smoking are provided to be used in the future economic evaluations.Smoking is significantly and negatively associated with health-related quality of life in English general population and the magnitude of this association is determined by the number of cigarettes smoked. The varying degree of this association, captured through instruments such as EQ-5D, may need to be fed into the design of future economic evaluations where the intervention being evaluated affects (e.g. tobacco control) or is affected (e.g. treatment for lung cancer) by individual's (or patients') smoking status.Experiencing an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) could affect health-related quality of life (HRQoL) several years after the onset. Long-term studies are scarce, and there is a lack of knowledge of whether HRQoL is affected > 5 years after the onset and, if so, in what dimensions. In the general population, HRQoL decreases with age and with the occurrence of a disease and differs between sexes. Factors that may influence HRQoL after aneurysmal SAH include neurological outcome, perceived recovery, aneurysm treatment, and family support.To measure HRQoL and to explore factors affecting HRQoL 10 years after aneurysmal SAH.A consecutive sample of all patients admitted for intracranial aneurysm rupture at a neurosurgical clinic in Stockholm (n = 217, 79.5% of eligible) were followed up from 2007 to 2008, approximately 10 years after aneurysm rupture. HRQoL was measured with EQ-5D, and the results were compared with a general population sample from the Stockholm Public Health Survey 2006 matched by age and sex.Compared with the general population, the aneurysm sample reported significantly more problems in 4 of 5 EQ-5D dimensions-mobility, self-care, usual activities, and anxiety/depression-and had significantly lower EQ-5Dindex and EQ visual analog scale values. Within the aneurysm sample, HRQoL was most affected in respondents with worse Glasgow outcome scale values at hospital discharge, respondents with comorbidities, and respondents with low perceived recovery.Aneurysmal SAH affects HRQoL to a large extent, even 10 years after the onset, indicating a need for long-term follow-up and support after the onset.Objective A randomised controlled study performed from 2007 to 2008 showed beneficial effects of a composite clinical pharmacist service as regards a simple health status instrument. The present study aimed to evaluate if the intervention was cost-effective when evaluated in a decision-theoretic model. Design A piggyback cost-effectiveness analysis from the healthcare perspective. Setting Two internal medicine wards at Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden. Participants Of 345 patients (61% women; median age: 82 years; 181 control and 164 intervention patients), 240 patients (62% women, 82 years; 124 control and 116 intervention patients) had EuroQol-5 dimensions (EQ-5D) utility scores at baseline and at 6-month follow-up. Outcome measures Costs during a 6-month follow-up period in all patients and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) in patients with EQ-5D utility scores. Inpatient and outpatient care was extracted from the VEGA database. Drug costs were extracted from the Swedish Prescribed Drug Register. A probabilistic analysis was performed to characterise uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness model. Results No significant difference in costs between the randomisation groups was found; the mean total costs per individual±SD, intervention costs included, were €10 748±13 799 (intervention patients) and €10 344±14 728 (control patients) (p=0.79). For patients in the cost-effectiveness analysis, the corresponding costs were €10 912±13 999 and €9290±12 885. Intervention patients gained an additional 0.0051 QALYs (unadjusted) and 0.0035 QALYs (adjusted for baseline EQ-5D utility score). These figures result in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of €316 243 per unadjusted QALY and €463 371 per adjusted QALY. The probabilistic uncertainty analysis revealed that, at a willingness-to-pay of €50 000/QALY, the probability that the intervention was cost-effective was approximately 0.2. Conclusions The present study reveals that an intervention designed like this one is probably not cost-effective. The study thus illustrates that the complexity of healthcare requires thorough health economics evaluations rather than simplistic interpretation of data.This predefined analysis of the European Forsteo Observational Study (EFOS) aimed to describe clinical fracture incidence, back pain, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) during 18 months of teriparatide treatment and 18 months post-teriparatide in the subgroup of 589 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis aged ≥75 years. Data on clinical fractures, back pain (visual analogue scale, VAS), and HRQoL (EQ-5D) were collected over 36 months. Fracture data were summarized in 6-month intervals and analyzed using logistic regression with repeated measures. A repeated-measures model analyzed changes from baseline in back pain VAS and EQ-VAS. During the 36-month observation period, 87 (14.8 %) women aged ≥75 years sustained a total of 111 new fractures: 37 (33.3 %) vertebral fractures and 74 (66.7 %) nonvertebral fractures. Adjusted odds of fracture was decreased by 80 % in the 30 to <36-month interval compared with the first 6-month interval (P < 0.009). Although the older subgroup had higher back pain scores and poorer HRQoL at baseline than the younger subgroup, both age groups showed significant reductions in back pain and improvements in HRQoL postbaseline. In conclusion, women aged ≥75 years with severe postmenopausal osteoporosis treated with teriparatide in normal clinical practice showed a reduced clinical fracture incidence by 30 months compared with baseline. An improvement in HRQoL and, possibly, an early and significant reduction in back pain were also observed, which lasted for at least 18 months after teriparatide discontinuation when patients were taking other osteoporosis medication. The results should be interpreted in the context of an uncontrolled observational study.The International Burden of Migraine Study (IBMS) showed chronic migraine (CM) was associated with a higher disease burden than episodic migraine (EM). However, in this study Asians with CM were underrepresented. Objectives We investigated if CM and EM differed in headache-related disability, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and health care resource utilization in Taiwan.This study recruited patients with EM and CM from two headache clinics in Taiwan. Diagnosis was made by physicians based on Silberstein-Lipton criteria. Participants completed a questionnaire including sociodemographics, Migraine Disability Assessment (MIDAS), EuroQol five-dimensions (EQ-5D), Migraine-Specific Quality of Life v2.1 (MSQ), Patient Health Questionnaire-4 (PHQ-4), productivity and health care resource utilization.A total of 331 patients (EM, n = 164 (49.5%); CM, n = 167 (50.5%)) completed the study. CM patients reported a significantly higher MIDAS score, lower generic (EQ-5D visual analogue scale score and EQ-5D index score) and migraine-specific (all three domains of MSQ) HRQoL, higher levels of anxiety and depression (PHQ-4 ≥ 6) and greater health care resource utilization and productivity loss than those with EM. Positive correlations were found between these instruments and levels of anxiety and depression.Compared to EM, CM was significantly associated with higher disability, lower HRQoL and greater health care resource utilization and productivity loss.To adapt and assess the validity and reliability of LupusQoL for use in Chinese patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).Debriefing interviews of subjects with SLE guided the language modifications of the tool. The process of adaptation proceeded according to the guideline and pre-testing results of LupusQoL-China. 220 SLE patients completed LupusQoL-China and a generic preference-based measurement of health EuroQoL scale (EQ-5D), and 20 patients repeated them after 2 weeks. Internal consistency (ICR) and test-retest (TRT) reliability, convergent and discriminant validity were examined. Factor analysis and Rasch analysis were performed.The mean (SD) age of the 208 subjects with SLE was 33.93 (± 9.19) years. ICR and TRT of the eight domains ranged from 0.811 to 0.965 and 0.836 to 0.974, respectively. The LupusQoL-China domains demonstrated substantial evidence of construct validity when compared with equivalent domains on the EQ-5D (physical health and usual activities r = -0.63, pain and pain/discomfort r = -0.778, emotional health and anxiety/depression r = -0.761, planning and usual activities r = -0.560). Most LupusQoL-China domains could discriminate patients with varied disease activities and end-organ damage (according to SELENA-SLEDAI and SLICC-DI). The principal component analysis revealed six factors, and confirmatory factor analysis result of which is similar to eight factors model.These results provide evidence that the LupusQoL-China is valid as a disease-specific HRQoL assessment tool for Chinese patients with SLE.Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common gastrointestinal disorder. The prevalence of IBS in Asian countries varies from 2.9% to 15.6%. IBS does not result in increased mortality, but is associated with psychological distress and disruption of work and sleep. Consequently, the evaluation of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is an important outcome measure for patients with IBS since it provides a holistic assessment of the patient's emotional, social and physical function. However, some HRQoL tools can be time-consuming to apply. EQ-5D is a brief HRQoL tool which has been validated in the Western IBS population but has thus far not been used in Asia. This study was conducted to determine whether persons with self-reported symptoms that met the Rome III criteria for IBS had a poorer quality of life than those without these symptoms. We also aimed to determine which specific aspects of quality of life were most affected and whether any risk factors distinguished those with and without IBS.Self-administered questionnaires which included the Rome III diagnostic questionnaire modules for IBS and the EQ-5D questionnaire were obtained from participants of a health symposium in Singapore on 31th October 2010. IBS was diagnosed based on the Rome III Criteria. The main outcome measure was the EQ-5D index score. The relationship between the presence of IBS and the EQ-5D index score, individual dimensions of EQ-5D and demographic risk factors were examined.449 completed questionnaires were analyzed. The mean EQ-5D index score for IBS was 0.739 which was a significant reduction compared to non-IBS participants [-0.11 (95% CI: -0.15 to -0.07), p<0.001]. Multivariate analysis showed that IBS was significantly associated with younger age and higher education level. Of the five EQ-5D dimensions, IBS sufferers were significantly affected in mobility, anxiety or depression, usual activity and pain. There was a "dose related" increase in likelihood of having IBS with increased severity of pain and anxiety or depression.IBS sufferers have significantly poorer quality of life. Assessment of HRQoL in IBS using the EQ-5D should be considered in further studies and routine clinical practice.In line with the NICE guidance, an NHS-commissioned case management intervention was provided for individuals receiving Incapacity Benefit payments for ≥3 years in the North East of England. The intervention aimed to improve the health of the participants.A total of 131 participants receiving the intervention were compared over 9 months with a (non-equivalent) comparison group of 229 receiving Incapacity Benefit payments and usual care. Health was measured using EQ-5D, EQ-VAS, SF-8, HADS and the Nordic Musculoskeletal questionnaire. Socio-demographic and health behaviour data were also collected. Fixed-effects linear models with correlated errors were used to compare health changes between groups over time. A preliminary cost-utility analysis was also conducted.The comparison group measures of health were stable over time. Starting from comparatively poor initial levels, case-management group generic (EQ5D, EQ-VAS) and mental health (HADS-A, HADS-D and SF8-MCS) measures improved within 6 months to similar levels found in the comparison group. Musculoskeletal (Nordic 2) and health behaviours did not improve. Tentative estimates of cost-utility suggest an intervention cost in the region of £16 700-£23 500 per QALY.Case management interventions may improve the health of Incapacity Benefit recipients. Further research is required to help confirm these pilot findings.Type-2 diabetes mellitus has a major impact on health related quality of life (HRQoL). We aimed to identify patient and treatment related variables having a major impact.DiaRegis is a prospective diabetes registry. The EQ-5D was used to describe differences in HRQoL at baseline. Odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were determined from univariable regression analysis. For the identification of independent predictors of a low score on the EQ-5D, multivariable unconditional logistic regression analysis was performed.A total of 2,760 patients were available for the present analysis (46.7% female, median age 66.2 years). Patients had considerable co-morbidity (18.3% coronary artery disease, 10.6% heart failure, 5.9% PAD and 5.0% stroke/TIA). Baseline HbA1c was 7.4%, fasting- and postprandial plasma glucose 139 mg/dl and 183 mg/dl.The median EQ-5D was 0.9 (interquartile range [IQR] 0.8-1.0). Independent predictors for a low EQ-5D were age > 66 years (OR 1.49; 95%CI 1.08-2.06), female gender (2.11; 1.55-2.86), hypertension (1.73; 1.03-2.93), peripheral neuropathy (1.62; 0.93-2.84) and clinically relevant depression (11.01; 3.97-30.50). There was no influence of dysglycaemia on the EQ-5D score.The present study suggests, that co-morbidity but not average glycaemic control reduces health related quality of life in type 2 diabetes mellitus.Several clinical trials have demonstrated the antianginal and anti-ischemic efficacy of ivabradine in combination with beta-blocker in patients with stable angina pectoris. The ADDITIONS (PrActical Daily efficacy anD safety of Procoralan(®) In combinaTION with betablockerS) study evaluated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of ivabradine added to beta-blocker, and its effect on angina symptoms and quality of life in routine clinical practice.This non-interventional, multicenter, prospective study included 2,330 patients with stable angina pectoris treated with a flexible dose of ivabradine twice daily in addition to beta-blocker for 4 months. The parameters recorded included heart rate, number of angina attacks, nitrate consumption, tolerance, and quality of life.After 4 months ivabradine (mean dose 12.37 ± 2.95 mg/day) reduced heart rate by 19.4 ± 11.4 to 65.6 ± 8.2 bpm (p < 0.0001). The number of angina attacks was reduced by 1.4 ± 1.9 per week (p < 0.0001), and nitrate consumption by 1.9 ± 2.9 U per week (p < 0.0001). At baseline (i.e., on beta-blocker), half of the patients (51%) were classified as Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) grade II; 29% were CCS grade I. After 4 months' treatment with ivabradine, most of the patients were CCS grade I (68%). The EQ-5D index improved by 0.17 ± 0.23 (p < 0.0001). The overall efficacy of ivabradine was considered by the physicians as "very good" (61%) or "good" (36%) in most patients. Suspected adverse drug reactions were documented in 14 patients; none were severe.In daily clinical practice, combining ivabradine with beta-blocker not only reduces heart rate, number of angina attacks, and nitrate consumption, but also improves the quality of life in patients with stable angina pectoris.Stratified management for low back pain according to patients' prognosis and matched care pathways has been shown to be an effective treatment approach in primary care. The aim of this within-trial study was to determine the economic implications of providing such an intervention, compared with non-stratified current best practice, within specific risk-defined subgroups (low-risk, medium-risk and high-risk).Within a cost-utility framework, the base-case analysis estimated the incremental healthcare cost per additional quality-adjusted life year (QALY), using the EQ-5D to generate QALYs, for each risk-defined subgroup. Uncertainty was explored with cost-utility planes and acceptability curves. Sensitivity analyses were performed to consider alternative costing methodologies, including the assessment of societal loss relating to work absence and the incorporation of generic (ie, non-back pain) healthcare utilisation.The stratified management approach was a cost-effective treatment strategy compared with current best practice within each risk-defined subgroup, exhibiting dominance (greater benefit and lower costs) for medium-risk patients and acceptable incremental cost to utility ratios for low-risk and high-risk patients. The likelihood that stratified care provides a cost-effective use of resources exceeds 90% at willingness-to-pay thresholds of £4000 (≈ 4500; $6500) per additional QALY for the medium-risk and high-risk groups. Patients receiving stratified care also reported fewer back pain-related days off work in all three subgroups.Compared with current best practice, stratified primary care management for low back pain provides a highly cost-effective use of resources across all risk-defined subgroups.To assess the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) over 30 months among women who received colposcopy following low-grade abnormal cervical cytology.751 women with low-grade abnormal cytology were seen for colposcopy. Of these, 350 additionally underwent either immediate treatment by large loop excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ) or investigation by punch biopsy followed by treatment of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia if present. The HRQoL of the women was assessed on seven separate occasions over 30 months by means of the EQ-5D instrument. Outcomes for women receiving colposcopy only, colposcopy with biopsy and colposcopy with LLETZ were compared.Women experienced modest short-term increases in HRQoL, statistically significant for the colposcopy only and biopsy groups but not for the LLETZ group. HRQoL in all three groups thereafter fell until 12 months following recruitment, significantly so for the LLETZ group. Changes in EQ-5D index score arose primarily from changes in severities in the "pain and discomfort" and "anxiety and depression" domains. Changes in the visual analogue scale (VAS) representations of quality of life corresponded closely to those of the index scores and most of the VAS scores themselves did not differ from VAS population norms. All inter-assessment changes in index scores were smaller than the minimum important difference for the instrument. Beyond 18 months from recruitment, HRQoL stabilised in all three groups.Women referred to colposcopy following a low-grade abnormal smear test result experienced a short-term improvement in their health-related quality of life, but the long-term effect was insubstantial. HRQoL over the post-recruitment follow-up period did not vary by intervention.A cohort study with 1-year follow-up.To identify prognostic factors in patients with chronic nonspecific low back pain (LBP).The factors (e.g., sociodemographical, low back-related, radiological, and biological) associated with persistent pain and disability for patients with chronic nonspecific LBP are uncertain. Furthermore, sparse information exists about the relationship between biological factors like impaired fasting glucose tolerance and chronic nonspecific LBP.The participants consisted of 250 patients with nonspecific LBP of more than 6 months duration and degenerative lumbar osteoarthritis. The patients were originally recruited for a randomized controlled trial from the clinics of general practitioners, physiotherapists, and chiropractors. Potential predictors were evaluated at baseline. The outcome was absolute level of pain-related disability (Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire [RMDQ]) at 1 year. The association between potential prognostic factors and the outcome was analyzed with multivariate linear backward regression.At baseline and 1 year, the RMDQ scores were 9.5 and 5.1 points, respectively. Mean (SD) baseline values for body mass index (BMI), EuroQol (EQ)-index, EQ-visual analogue scale were 25.4 (4.3), 0.60 (0.3), and 61.2 (20.8), respectively. Higher pain-related disability levels (1-year RMDQ score) were associated with 6.1 mmol/L or more fasting glucose level at baseline (β, 3.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.2-6.1; P = 0.00), baseline pain-related disability (β 0.2; 95% CI, 0.1-0.4; P = 0.00), BMI (β, 0.2; 95% CI, 0.1-0.3; P < 0.03), EQ-index (β, -4.5; 95% CI, 6.9 to 2.1; P = 0.00), and EQ-visual analogue scale (β, 0.3; 95% CI, -0.6 to -0.0; P = 0.03). However, a limited number of patients had 6.1 mmol/L or more of fasting glucose level at baseline (13/250 patients). The imaging findings, modic changes, and high intensity zones had no predictive ability.Increased pain-related disability at 1 year was seen in patients with impaired fasting glucose tolerance, greater pain-related disability, higher BMI, and lower quality of life at baseline.We present a comparison of patient-reported outcomes (PROMs) in relation to patient age, in patients who had received a total (TKR) or unicompartmental knee replacement (UKR). The outcome was evaluated using the Oxford knee score (OKS), EuroQol (EQ-5D) and satisfaction scores. Patients aged 65 to 84 years demonstrated better pre-operative function scores than those aged < 65 years (OKS, p = 0.03; EQ-5D, p = 0.048) and those aged ≥ 85 years (OKS, p = 0.03). Post-operative scores were comparable across age groups, but a linear trend for greater post-operative improvement in OKS and EQ-5D was seen with decreasing age (p < 0.033). The overall mean satisfaction score at six months was 84.9, but those aged < 55 years exhibited a lower mean level of satisfaction (78.3) compared with all other age groups (all p < 0.031). The cumulative overall two-year revision rate was 1.3%. This study demonstrates that good early outcomes, as measured by the OKS and EQ-5D, can be anticipated following knee replacement regardless of the patient's age, although younger patients gain greater improvement. However, the lower satisfaction in those aged < 55 years is a concern, and suggests that outcome is not fully encapsulated by the OKS and EQ-5D evaluation, and raises the question whether the OKS alone is an appropriate measure of pain and function in younger, more active individuals.To evaluate health utility values of the elderly in the outskirts of Beijing by European quality of life 5-dimensions (EQ-5D) from the EuroQol Group, and to compare the health utility values by using different translation models.In the cross-sectional study, EQ-5D was used to measure the quality of life for 65 to 79 year-old usual residents in the town of Qinglonghu and Zhoukoudian in Fangshan District of Beijing. The health index which represented the health utility was calculated by using the Japan, the United Kingdom (UK), the United States (US) population-based time trade-off (TTO) models. Kruskal-Wallis H test was adopted to compare the health indexes calculated by the different models, and intraclass correlations coefficients (ICCs) and Bland-Altman plot were used to evaluate the consistency of the utility calculated by the three models. Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare the impacts of Cardio-vascular diseasel (CVD) on the 3 kinds of health index. The Spearman rho correlation coefficients between the 3 kinds of health index, EQ-VAS (visual analogue scales) score and age, gender, health status were also calculated.There were 2 406 participants in this analysis, with a mean age of 70.3 years, of whom 34.3% were male. The median and quantile range of Japan weights, US weights and UK weights health indexes were 1 (0.28), 1 (0.24) and 1 (0.29), respectively. The minimum and maximum of the three indexes were -0.06/1, -0.43/1 and -0.03/1, respectively. The US weights yielded the highest scores and the UK weights the lowest scores. The Japan, US and UK weight scores differed from each other (P<0.005). The Japan and US scores had the highest ICCs (0.987, 95%CI 0.986-0.988), followed by the US and UK scores (0.941, 95%CI 0.937- 0.946) and then the Japan and UK scores (0.921, 95%CI 0.915-0.927). The difference scores of 96.9%, 95.1% and 95.0% were found between the limits of agreement in Bland-Altmand plot. Negative correlations existed between the US/UK score and the number of CVDs, but not existed between the Japan score and the number of CVDs.The health indexes calculated by using the different EQ-5D TTO transform models were different for the elderly people in the Beijing suburban district, TTO model based on Chinese health preference should be developed.To explore the economic burden and quality of life of vulvodynia in the United States.We conducted a web-based survey from 2009 to 2010. Patients who responded to a National Vulvodynia Association advertisement completed the survey every month, recording their own costs and their employers' payments related to vulvodynia in the previous month. A total of 302 patients entered data for at least 1 month and among them, 97 patients had completed data for 6 months. We used multiple imputation to generate values for unobserved cost components. For insurance payments, we also extracted the average insurance payments for direct healthcare services relating to vulvodynia from a commercial insurance database. The total costs were disaggregated into direct healthcare costs, direct non-healthcare costs and indirect costs. We also assessed patients' quality of life by using Euro QOL 5 dimensions (EQ-5D) in a follow-up survey.The total costs in 6 months were $8862.40 per patient, of which $6043.34 (68.19%) were direct healthcare costs, $553.81 (6.25%) were direct non-healthcare costs and $2265.25 (25.56%) were indirect costs. Based on the reported prevalence range of 3-7% in the US, our analysis yielded an annual national burden ranging from $31 to $72 billion in the US. However, the estimate should be viewed with caution as our study sample was non-probability. The average EQ-5D score was 0.74 ± 0.19 in vulvodynia patients.Vulvodynia is associated with a huge economic burden to both individuals and society. It is also related to a relatively low quality of life.This review examines psychometric performance of three widely used generic preference-based measures, that is, EuroQol 5 dimensions (EQ-5D), Health Utility Index 3 (HUI3) and Short-form 6 dimensions (SF-6D) in patients with hearing impairments.A systematic search was undertaken to identify studies of patients with hearing impairments where health state utility values were measured and reported. Data were extracted and analysed to assess the reliability, validity (known group differences and convergent validity) and responsiveness of the measures across hearing impairments.Fourteen studies (18 papers) were included in the review. HUI3 was the most commonly used utility measures in hearing impairment. In all six studies, the HUI3 detected difference between groups defined by the severity of impairment, and four out of five studies detected statistically significant changes as a result of intervention. The only study available suggested that EQ-5D only had weak ability to discriminate difference between severity groups, and in four out of five studies, EQ-5D failed to detected changes. Only one study involved the SF-6D; thus, the information is too limited to conclude on its performance. Also evidence for the reliability of these measures was not found.Overall, the validity and responsiveness of the HUI3 in hearing impairment was good. The responsiveness of EQ-5D was relatively poor and weak validity was suggested by limited evidence. The evidence on SF-6D was too limited to make any judgment. More head-to-head comparisons of these and other preference measures of health are required.Loss of knee meniscal tissue often leads to increased pain and decreased function.At a minimum 2-year follow-up, patients receiving a lateral collagen meniscus implant (CMI) would show improved knee function and decreased pain compared with their preoperative status.Case series; Level of evidence, 4.Twenty-four patients with irreparable lateral meniscal tears (n = 7) or previous partial lateral meniscectomy (n = 17) underwent arthroscopic lateral collagen meniscus implantation. Clinical evaluation was performed preoperatively, at 6 months, and at a minimum 2-year follow-up with Lysholm, visual analog scale (VAS) for pain, Tegner, objective International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC), and EuroQol 5 dimensions (EQ-5D) scores. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evaluation was performed preoperatively and at final follow-up using the modified Yulish score for cartilage and the Genovese score for implant size and signal intensity.All clinical scores significantly improved from preoperative evaluation to final follow-up. Average Lysholm scores improved from 64.0 ± 16.2 to 92.7 ± 13.8 (P < .0001), VAS for pain from 55.2 ± 29.4 to 19.5 ± 25.6 (P < .0001), Tegner from 3 (interquartile range, 2-4) to 5 (interquartile range, 4-7) (P = .0062), objective IKDC from 6A, 14B, 4C to 20A, 3B, 1D (P = .0002), and EQ-5D from 0.58 ± 0.28 to 0.89 ± 0.14 (P < .0001). Good to excellent (A + B) objective IKDC scores improved from 83% preoperatively to 96% at 2-year follow-up. The Tegner index (the percentage of the lost activity level that was regained as a result of the treatment intervention) was 47% at 6-month follow-up and 79% at 2-year follow-up: this improvement was statistically significant (P = .0062). The MRI evaluations for tibial and femoral modified Yulish scores for cartilage remained similar over the course of the study; 87.5% of implants were reduced in size, and in 3 cases (12.5%), they were completely resorbed; 50% of the implants had a slightly hyperintense signal (relative to the normal meniscus), and signal intensity changes suggested that full maturation had occurred in 37.5% at final follow-up (based on the Genovese scores).The lateral CMI demonstrated that it was safe in this population study, with decreased pain and improved knee function in 96% of patients with excellent/good Lysholm results in 87% of patients at a minimum 2-year follow-up. The MRI scans demonstrated a decreased implant size relative to a normal meniscus.To report the medium-term clinical and radiographic outcomes of a group of patients who underwent anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) surgery combined with high tibial osteotomy (HTO) for varus-related early medial osteoarthritis (OA) and ACL deficiency knee.Thirty-two patients underwent single-bundle over-the-top ACL reconstruction or revision surgery and a concomitant closing-wedge lateral HTO. The mean age at surgery was 40.1 ± 8.1 years. Evaluation at a mean of 6.5 ± 2.7 years of follow-up consisted of subjective and objective IKDC, Tegner Activity Level, EQ-5D, VAS for pain and AP laxity assessment with KT-1000 arthrometer. Limb alignment and OA changes were evaluated on radiographs.All scores significantly improved from pre-operative status to final follow-up. KT-1000 evaluation showed a mean side-to-side difference of 2.2 ± 1.0 mm. Two patients were considered as failures. The mean correction of the limb alignment was 5.6° ± 2.8°. Posterior tibial slope decreased at a mean of 1.2° ± 0.9°. At final follow-up, the mechanical axes crossed the medial-lateral length of tibial plateau at a mean of 56 ± 23 %, with only 1 patient (3 %) presenting severe varus alignment. OA progression was recorded only on the medial compartment (p = 0.0230), with severe medial OA in 22 % of the patients. No patients underwent osteotomy revision, ACL revision, UKA or TKA.The described technique allowed patients with medial OA, varus alignment and chronic ACL deficiency to restore knee laxity, correct alignment and resume a recreational level of activity at 6.5 years of follow-up.To determine the quality of life of complex patients who were part of a case management program in Primary Health Care.A cross-sectional descriptive study was conducted on complex patients who had no cognitive impairment selected by consecutive sampling, who were seen, during the last six months of the year 2010, in two Basic Health Areas on the Coast of Barcelona (Spain). The EuroQol test was administered as an individualised questionnaire. The values were assessed by using Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-VAS) and EuroQol index, from the five key dimensions of the instrument.Fifty patients with a mean age of 71.46 years, and 66% of whom were female, were included in the study. Within the key dimensions, pain was the most important problem in 80% of cases, followed by mobility problems, activities of daily life and anxiety/depression problems in 62.5%, and finally, personal care problems in 47.5% of cases. The global values of EQ-VAS and EuroQol index were 51.89 (SD 21.19) and 0.53 (SD 0.26), respectively. The worst quality of life was detected in EQ-VAS and EuroQol Index for women, in situations of loneliness, co-morbidity, and with higher frequency of visits to hospital. In the EQ-VAS, there was a tendency to score higher when older, and significantly less in case of the men living alone (EQ-EVA 36.67±15.27)Complex patients in our context have a worst quality of life than the general population in Catalonia older than 70 years old. EuroQol is useful to perform comparisons between population groups.To estimate the health utility scores associated with type 2 diabetes, its treatments, complications, and comorbidities.We analyzed health-related quality-of-life data, collected at baseline during Translating Research Into Action for Diabetes, a multicenter, prospective, observational study of diabetes care in managed care, for 7,327 individuals with type 2 diabetes. We measured quality-of-life using the EuroQol (EQ)-5D, a standardized instrument for which 1.00 indicates perfect health. We used multivariable regression to estimate the independent impact of demographic characteristics, diabetes treatments, complications, and comorbidities on health-related quality-of-life.The mean EQ-5D-derived health utility score for those individuals with diabetes was 0.80. The modeled utility score for a nonobese, non-insulin-treated, non-Asian, non-Hispanic man with type 2 diabetes, with an annual household income of more than $40,000, and with no diabetes complications, risk factors for cardiovascular disease, or comorbidities, was 0.92. Being a woman, being obese, smoking, and having a lower household income were associated with lower utility scores. Arranging complications from least to most severe according to the reduction in health utility scores resulted in the following order: peripheral vascular disease, other heart diseases, transient ischemic attack, cerebral vascular accident, nonpainful diabetic neuropathy, congestive heart failure, dialysis, hemiplegia, painful neuropathy, and amputation.Major diabetes complications and comorbidities are associated with decreased health-related quality-of-life. Utility estimates from our study can be used to assess the impact of diabetes on quality-of-life and conduct cost-utility analyses.To investigate the influence of response shift (RS) on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and utility assessment among patients undergoing total knee replacement.Consenting patients undergoing total knee replacement were interviewed to determine their HRQOL by using the six-dimensional health state short form, derived from SF-36, and the EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire at baseline (pretest 1) and the six-dimensional health state short form, derived from SF-36, at 6 (pretest 2) and 18 months after surgery (post-test). RS was studied by using a "then-test" approach by contacting participants 18 months after surgery and asking them to evaluate their HRQOL at baseline (then-test 1) and at 6 (then-test 2) and 18 months after surgery. RS was calculated as the score difference between pretest and then-test scores for a given time point. Relationships between RS and external variables were explored by using univariate and multiple liner regression analyses.In 74 subjects (63% response rate, median age 68 years), median (interquantile range) six-dimensional health state short form, derived from SF-36, scores for then-tests at baseline (0.48 [0.42-0.49]) and at 6 months (0.72 [0.66-0.79]) after surgery were significantly different from respective pretest scores (0.61 [0.58-0.68] at baseline, P = 0.000; 0.69 [0.63-0.72] at 6 months, P = 0.000), showing RS at both time points. RS at baseline (0.14 [0.08-0.20]) was significantly larger than that at 6 months (-0.05 [0.14 to 0.00], P = 0.000). EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire pretest and then-test scores at baseline also differed significantly (0.69 [0.17-0.73] vs. -0.18 [-0.23 to 0.00], P = 0.000). RS at baseline was not affected by assessed demographic or medical variables. RS at 6 months was greater in subjects with more years of education (16% of variance in multiple liner regression, P < 0.01).RS was present and impacted HRQOL and utility assessment among patients undergoing total knee replacement before and 6 months after surgery.Quality of life (QoL) assessment has become an important aspect of the clinical management of gastric cancer (GC), which poses a greater health threat in Chinese populations around the world. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Gastric Module (FACT-Ga), a questionnaire developed specifically to measure QoL of patients with GC, has never been validated in Chinese subjects. The current study was designed to examine the psychometric properties of FACT-Ga as a GC specific QoL instrument for its future use in Chinese populations.A sample of 67 Chinese patients with GC in the National University Hospital, Singapore was investigated cross-sectionally. The participants independently completed either English or Chinese versions of the FACT-Ga and the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D). Reliability was measured as the Cronbach's α for EQ-5D, and five subscale scores and two total scores of FACT-Ga. The sensitivity to patients' clinical status was evaluated by comparing EQ-5D and FACT-Ga scores between clinical subgroups classified by Clinical Stage and Treatment Intent. The construct validity of FACT-Ga was assessed internally by examining the item-to-scale correlations and externally by contrasting the FACT-Ga subscales with the EQ-5D domains.For both FACT-Ga and EQ-5D, patients treated with curative intent rated their QoL higher than those treated for palliation, and early stage patients scored higher than those in the late stage. The sensitivity to clinical status of FACT-Ga scores were differential as four of seven FACT-Ga scores were significant for Treatment Intent while only one subscale score was significant for Clinical Stage. Six FACT-Ga scores had Cronbach's α of 0.8 or above indicating excellent reliability. For construct validity, 45 of 46 items converged about their respective subscales. The monotrait-multimethod correlations between QoL constructs of FACT-Ga and EQ-5D were stronger than the multitrait-multimethod correlations as theoretically hypothesized, suggesting good convergent and discriminant validities.Given the excellent reliability and good construct validity, FACT-Ga scores are able to distinguish patient groups with different clinical characteristics in the expected direction. Therefore FACT-Ga can be used as a discriminative instrument for measuring QoL of Chinese patients with GC.Currently, herniated nucleus pulposus (HNP) with radiculopathy and other preconditions are regarded as relative or absolute contraindications for lumbar total disc replacement (TDR). In Switzerland it is left to the surgeon's discretion when to operate. The present study is based on the dataset of SWISSspine, a governmentally mandated health technology assessment registry. We hypothesized that preoperative nucleus pulposus status and presence or absence of radiculopathy has an influence on clinical outcomes in patients treated with mono-segmental lumbar TDR.Between March 2005 and April 2009, 416 patients underwent mono-segmental lumbar TDR, which was documented in a prospective observational multicenter mode. The data collection consisted of perioperative and follow-up data (physician based) and clinical outcomes (NASS, EQ-5D).Patients were divided into four groups according to their preoperative status: 1) group degenerative disc disease ("DDD"): 160 patients without HNP and no radiculopathy, classic precondition for TDR; 2) group "HNP-No radiculopathy": 68 patients with HNP but without radiculopathy; 3) group "Stenosis": 73 patients without HNP but with radiculopathy, and 4) group "HNP-Radiculopathy": 132 patients with HNP and radiculopathy. The groups were compared regarding preoperative patient characteristics and pre- and postoperative VAS and EQ-5D scores using general linear modeling.Demographics in all four groups were comparable. Regarding the improvement of quality of life (EQ-5D) there were no differences across the four groups. For the two main groups DDD and HNP-Radiculopathy no differences were found in the adjusted postoperative back- and leg pain alleviation levels, in the stenosis group back- and leg pain relief were lower.Despite higher preoperative leg pain levels, outcomes in lumbar TDR patients with HNP and radiculopathy were similar to outcomes in patients with the classic indication; this because patients with higher preoperative leg pain levels benefit from a relatively greater leg pain alleviation. The group with absence of HNP but presence of radiculopathy showed considerably less benefits from the operation, which is probably related to ongoing degenerative processes of the posterior segmental structures. This observational multicenter study suggests that the diagnoses HNP and radiculopathy, combined or alone, may not have to be considered as absolute or relative contraindications for mono-segmental lumbar TDR anymore, whereas patients without HNP but with radiculopathy seem to be suboptimal candidates for the procedure.A recent randomised controlled trial showed significant benefits for Parkinson's disease (PD) caregivers' psychosocial problems and need for help and a trend towards significant improvement of patients' quality of life after participation in the Patient Education Programme for Parkinson's disease (PEPP). Large variations in change scores were found, indicating variation in benefit. The aim of this study was to search for treatment effect modifiers.Outcome measures were patients' quality of life [Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ)-39] and caregivers' psychosocial burden [Belastungsfragebogen Parkinson Angehörigen kurzversion (BELA-A-k)]. Candidate treatment effect modifiers were participants' characteristics and baseline scores on psychological questionnaires (BELA-P/A-k, PDQ-39, EQ-5D, Self-rating Depression Scale) and patients' neuropsychological test scores (Mini Mental State Examination, National Adult Reading Test, Dutch version, Word Test, Behavioural Assessment of the Dysexecutive Syndrome rule shift, Trail Making Test, Stroop). Secondary analyses of data from a randomised controlled trial with 64 patients and 46 caregivers were performed using regression analyses with treatment group interaction terms.No significant modifiers were found for the patients. In the caregiver group, a higher MMSE score of the patient at baseline was found to be a significant predictor of a lower BELA-A-k Bothered by score post-intervention of the caregiver.A potential predictor of treatment benefit was found for caregivers of PD patients with better cognitive functioning. This study did not find treatment effect modifiers for PD patients: demographics, disease stage and time of diagnosis, cognitive functioning, level of baseline psychosocial burden, participating with or without a caregiver, and caregiver changes did not influence treatment outcome. The PEPP seems suitable for the majority of patients.To develop and validate a comprehensive patient-reported outcomes instrument focusing on the impact of dry eye on everyday life (IDEEL).Development and validation of the IDEEL occurred in four phases: 1) focus groups with 45 dry eye patients to develop a draft instrument, 2) item generation, 3) pilot study to assess content validity in 16 patients and 4) psychometric validation in 210 subjects: 130 with non-Sjögren's keratoconjunctivitis sicca, 32 with Sjögren's syndrome and 48 controls, and subsequent item reduction.Focus groups identified symptoms and the associated bother, the impact of dry eye on daily life and the patients' satisfaction with their treatment as the central concepts in patients' experience of dry eye. Qualitative analysis indicated that saturation was achieved for these concepts and yielded an initial 112-item draft instrument. Patients understood the questionnaire and found the items to be relevant indicating content validity. Patient input, item descriptive statistics and factor analysis identified 55 items that could be deleted. The final 57-item IDEEL assesses dry eye impact constituting 3 modules: dry eye symptom-bother, dry eye impact on daily life comprising impact on daily activities, emotional impact, impact on work, and dry eye treatment satisfaction comprising satisfaction with treatment effectiveness and treatment-related bother/inconvenience. The psychometric analysis results indicated that the IDEEL met the criteria for item discriminant validity, internal consistency reliability, test-retest reliability and floor/ceiling effects. As expected, the correlations between IDEEL and the Dry Eye Questionnaire (a habitual symptom questionnaire) were higher than between IDEEL and Short-Form-36 and EuroQoL-5D, indicating concurrent validity.The IDEEL is a reliable, valid and comprehensive questionnaire relevant to issues that are specific to dry eye patients, and meets current FDA patient-reported outcomes guidelines. The use of this questionnaire will provide assessment of the impact of dry eye on patient dry eye-related quality of life, impact of treatment on patient outcomes in clinical trials, and may aid in treatment effectiveness evaluation.Patient satisfaction ratings are increasingly being used in health care as a proxy for quality and are becoming the focal point for several quality improvement initiatives. Affective disorders, such as depression, have been shown to influence patient-reported outcomes and self-interpretation of health status. We hypothesize that patient psychiatric profiles influence reported satisfaction with care, independent of surgical effectiveness.To assess the predictive value of preoperative depression on patient satisfaction after revision surgery for same-level recurrent stenosis.Retrospective cohort study.Fifty-three patients undergoing a revision surgery for symptomatic same-level recurrent stenosis.Patient-reported outcome measures were assessed using an outcomes questionnaire that included questions on health state values (EuroQol-5D [EQ-5D]), disability (Oswestry Disability Index [ODI]), pain (visual analog scale [VAS]), depression (Zung self-rating depression scale), and Short Form 12 (SF-12) physical and mental component scores (PCS and MCS). Patient satisfaction was dichotomized as either "YES" or "NO" on whether they were satisfied with their surgical outcome 2 years after the surgery.A total of fifty-three patients undergoing revision neural decompression and instrumented fusion for same-level recurrent stenosis-associated back and leg pain were included in this study. Preoperative Zung self-rating depression score (ZDS), education status, comorbidities, and postoperative satisfaction with surgical care and outcome was assessed for all patients. Baseline and 2-year VAS for leg pain (VAS-LP), VAS for low back pain (VAS-BP), ODI, SF-12 PCS and MCS, and health-state utility (EQ-5D) were assessed. Factors associated with patient satisfaction after surgery were assessed via multivariate logistic regression analysis.Two years after surgery, a significant improvement was reported in all outcome measures: VAS-BP (5±2.94 vs. 9.28±1, p<.001), VAS-LP (3.43±2.95 vs. 9.5±0.93, p<.001), ODI (21.75±12.07 vs. 36.01±6, p<.001), SF-12 PCS (32.30±11.01 vs. 25.13±5.84, p<.001), SF-12 MCS (47.48±10.96 vs. 34.91±12.77, p<.001), EQ-5D (0.60±0.31 vs. 0.18±0.22, p<.001), and ZDS (37.52±11.98 vs. 49.90±10.88, p<.001). Independent of postoperative improvement in pain and disability (surgical effectiveness), increasing preoperative Zung depression score was significantly associated with patient dissatisfaction 2 years after revision lumbar surgery (Odds ratio=0.67 [confidence interval: 0.38, 0.87], p<.001).Our study suggests that independent of the surgical effectiveness, the extent of preoperative depression influences the reported patient satisfaction after revision lumbar surgery. Quality improvement initiatives using patient satisfaction as a proxy for quality should account for the patients' baseline depression as potential confounders.Same-level recurrent lumbar stenosis, pseudarthrosis, and adjacent-segment disease (ASD) are potential complications that can occur after index lumbar spine surgery, leading to significant discomfort and radicular pain. While numerous studies have demonstrated excellent results following index lumbar spine surgery in elderly patients (age > 65 years), the effectiveness of revision lumbar surgery in this cohort remains unclear. The aim of this study was to assess the long-term effectiveness of revision lumbar decompression and fusion in the treatment of symptomatic pseudarthrosis, ASD, and same-level recurrent stenosis, using validated patient-reported outcomes.After a review of the institutional database, 69 patients who had undergone revision neural decompression and instrumented fusion for ASD (28 patients), pseudarthrosis (17 patients), or same-level recurrent stenosis (24 patients) were included in this study. Baseline and 2-year scores on the visual analog scale for leg pain (VAS-LP), VAS for back pain (VAS-BP), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS) as well as the time to narcotic independence, time to return to baseline activity level, health state utility (EQ-5D, the EuroQol-5D health survey), and physical and mental component summary scores of the 12-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-12 PCS and MCS) were assessed.Compared with the preoperative status, VAS-BP was significantly improved 2 years after surgery for ASD (mean ± standard deviation 9 ± 2 vs 4.01 ± 2.56, p = 0.001), pseudarthrosis (7.41 ± 1 vs 5.52 ± 3.08, p = 0.02), and same-level recurrent stenosis (7 ± 2.00 vs 5.00 ± 2.34, p = 0.003). The 2-year ODI was also significantly improved after surgery for ASD (29 ± 9 vs 23.10 ± 10.18, p = 0.001), pseudarthrosis (28.47 ± 5.85 vs 24.41 ± 7.75, p = 0.001), and same-level recurrent stenosis (30.83 ± 5.28 vs 26.29 ± 4.10, p = 0.003). The Zung SDS score and SF-12 MCS did not change appreciably after surgery in any of the cohorts, with an overall mean 2-year change of 1.01 ± 5.32 (p = 0.46) and 2.02 ± 9.25 (p = 0.22), respectively.Data in this study suggest that revision lumbar decompression and extension of fusion for symptomatic pseudarthrosis, ASD, and same-level recurrent stenosis provides improvement in low-back pain, disability, and quality of life and should be considered a viable treatment option for elderly patients with persistent or recurrent back and radicular pain. Mental health symptoms may be more refractory to revision surgery.To determine the 12-month, societal cost-effectiveness of involving urinary incontinence (UI) nurse specialists in primary care compared to care-as-usual by general practitioners (GPs).From 2005 until 2008 an economic evaluation was performed alongside a pragmatic multicenter randomized controlled trial comparing UI patients receiving care by nurse specialists with patients receiving care-as-usual by GPs in the Netherlands. One hundred eighty-six adult patients with stress, urgency, or mixed UI were randomly allocated to the intervention and 198 to care-as-usual; they were followed for 1 year. Main outcome measures were Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY(societal) ) based on societal preferences for health outcomes (EuroQol-5D), QALY(patient) based on patient preferences for health outcomes (EuroQol VAS), and Incontinence Severity weighted Life Year (ISLY) based on patient-reported severity and impact of UI (ICIQ-UI SF). Health care resource use, patient and family costs, and productivity costs were assessed. Data were collected by three monthly questionnaires. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated. Uncertainty was assessed using bootstrap simulation, and the expected value of perfect information was calculated (EVPI).Compared to care-as-usual, nurse specialist involvement costs € 16,742/QALY(societal) gained. Both QALY(patient) and ISLY yield slightly more favorable cost-effectiveness results. At a threshold of € 40,000/QALY(societal,) the probability that the intervention is cost-effective is 58%. The EVPI amounts to € 78 million.Based on these results, we recommend adopting the nurse specialist intervention in primary care, while conducting more research through careful monitoring of the effectiveness and costs of the intervention in routine practice.Post-stroke hypoxia is common, and may adversely affect outcome. We have recently shown that oxygen supplementation may improve early neurological recovery. Here, we report the six-month outcomes of this pilot study.Patients with a clinical diagnosis of acute stroke were randomized within 24 h of admission to oxygen supplementation at 2 or 3 L/min for 72 h or to control treatment (room air). Outcomes (see below) were assessed by postal questionnaire at 6 months. Analysis was by intention-to-treat, and statistical significance was set at p ≤ 0.05.Out of 301 patients randomized two refused/withdrew consent and 289 (148 in the oxygen and 141 in the control group) were included in the analysis: males 44%, 51%; mean (SD) age 73 (12), 71 (12); median (IQR) National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score 6 (3, 10), 5 (3, 10) for the two groups respectively. At six months 22 (15%) patients in the oxygen group and 20 (14%) in the control group had died; mean survival in both groups was 162 days (p = 0.99). Median (IQR) scores for the primary outcome, the modified Rankin Scale, were 3 (1, 5) and 3 (1, 4) for the oxygen and control groups respectively. The covariate-adjusted odds ratio was 1.04 (95% CI 0.67, 1.60), indicating that the odds of a lower (i.e. better) score were non-significantly higher in the oxygen group (p = 0.86). The mean differences in the ability to perform basic (Barthel Index) and extended activities of daily living (NEADL), and quality of life (EuroQol) were also non-significant.None of the key outcomes differed at 6 months between the groups. Although not statistically significant and generally of small magnitude, the effects were predominantly in favour of the oxygen group; a larger trial, powered to show differences in longer-term functional outcomes, is now on-going.Controlled-Trials.com ISRCTN12362720; Eudract.ema.europa.eu 2004-001866-41.The purpose of this study was to examine the incidence of nuisance bleeding after AMI and its impact on QOL.Prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) is recommended after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) to reduce ischemic events, but it is associated with increased rates of major and minor bleeding. The incidence of even lesser degrees of post-discharge "nuisance" bleeding with DAPT and its impact on quality of life (QOL) are unknown.Data from the 24-center TRIUMPH (Translational Research Investigating Underlying Disparities in Acute Myocardial Infarction Patients' Health Status) study of 3,560 patients, who were interviewed at 1, 6, and 12 months after AMI, were used to investigate the incidence of nuisance bleeding (defined as Bleeding Academic Research Consortium type 1). Baseline characteristics associated with "nuisance" bleeding and its association with QOL, as measured by the EuroQol 5 Dimension visual analog scale, and subsequent re-hospitalization were examined.Nuisance (Bleeding Academic Research Consortium type 1) bleeding occurred in 1,335 patients (37.5%) over the 12 months after AMI. After adjusting for baseline bleeding and mortality risk, ongoing DAPT was the strongest predictor of nuisance bleeding (rate ratio [RR]: 1.44, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.17 to 1.76 at 1 month; RR: 1.89, 95% CI: 1.35 to 2.65 at 6 months; and RR: 1.39, 95% CI: 1.08 to 1.79 at 12 months; p < 0.01 for all comparisons). Nuisance bleeding at 1 month was independently associated with a decrement in QOL at 1 month (-2.81 points on EuroQol 5 Dimension visual analog scale; 95% CI: 1.09 to 5.64) and nonsignificantly toward higher re-hospitalization (hazard ratio: 1.20; 95% CI: 0.95 to 1.52).Nuisance bleeding is common in the year after AMI, associated with ongoing use of DAPT, and independently associated with worse QOL. Improved selection of patients for prolonged DAPT may help minimize the incidence and adverse consequences of nuisance bleeding.Severe obesity is a complex condition that is associated with a wide range of serious health complications and reduced health-related quality of life (HRQoL). In addition to physiological factors, activity and participation, environmental factors, and personal factors are related to an individual's overall quality of life HRQoL. In Norway, a course based on cognitive behavioral principles is offered to people seeking medical treatment for weight management. The aim is to assist participants to achieve a healthier lifestyle and thereby improve their HRQoL. We therefore investigated changes in HRQoL in participants after they attended this learning and mastery course, and explored how well sociodemographic variables, paid work, social support, personal factors, and surgery predicted HRQoL at 12-month follow-up.A single-group longitudinal study was conducted. Data were collected by self-reported questionnaires. This article reports on those who had completed the questionnaire at the 12-month (n = 69) follow-up. HRQoL was assessed with the EQ-5D. Other standardized instruments measured employment, social support, self-efficacy, and surgery.At the 12-month follow-up, participants scored higher on all dimensions of the EQ-5D and on the EQ-VAS. Generalized linear model showed that having paid work, and social support were statistically significant predictors of HRQoL at the 12-month follow-up. Sex, self-efficacy, and surgery were not statistically significant associated with HRQoL.Participation in paid work, and receiving social support from persons with whom they had a close relationship were strongly related to HRQoL in obese people 12 months after participating in a learning and mastery course.The study is registered in Clinical Trials: NCT01336725.A cross-sectional study was performed to assess the correlation between telephone and self-administration of patient-related outcomes (PROs) used in the assessment of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) patients. Participants underwent a telephone interview in which the following measures were evaluated: numerical rating scales (NRSs) for global health, pain intensity, global pain, back pain, and back pain at night; BASDI, BASFI, Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), ASQoL, EuroQol, SF-12, and Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) questionnaire. Within 48 h after the telephone interview, patients were appointed for a clinical visit in which the same questionnaires and in the same order were self-administered. The degree of correlation of outcomes measures between telephone interview and self-administration was assessed with the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). The two modes of assessing PROs were highly reliable, with ICC of 0.81 for BASDAI, 0.82 for BASFI, and 0.75 for HAQ. NRSs for global health, global pain intensity, back pain, and back pain at night also showed ICCs between 0.51 and 0.70, and only NRS for global disease activity showed an ICC of 0.45. This results were similar in patients with AS and patients with psoriatic arthritis. Social functioning and mental health domains of the SF-12 as well as EuroQol had poor correlations. The ICCs for WPAI outcomes were very good or good. We conclude that PROs in AS patients are comparable in both self-administered paper questionnaires and via a telephone interview. Different modes of assessing PRO measures facilitate the assessment of patients with AS in routine practice.Existing research suggests that family caregivers of persons with Huntington's disease (HD) face a distinct series of problems, linked to the complex nature of the disease. Aubeeluck and Buchanan (Clin Genet, 71(5):434-445, 2007) developed and validated a disease-specific measure used to explore caregivers quality of life and assess the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. This current study builds on this research through the validation of French and Italian translations of the Huntington's disease quality of life battery for carers (HDQoL-C).A total of 301 family carers completed the HDQoL-C. Participants were recruited through the "Euro-HDB" study which is measuring the burden in HD across Europe and the USA.Factor analysis demonstrated good internal consistency, reliability and congruent validity. Carers who cared for patients with less clinically severe symptoms reported significantly better QoL than carers of patients with more clinically severe symptoms.Findings indicate the HDQoL-C is multi-lingual, multi-cultural and easily applicable in other languages.In EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire valuation studies, each participant typically assesses more than 10 hypothetical health states by using the time trade-off (TTO) method. We wanted to explore potential learning effects when using the TTO method, that is, whether the valuations were affected by the number of previously rated health states (the sequence number).We included 3773 respondents from the US EQ-5D valuation study, each of whom valued 12 health states (plus unconscious) in random order. With linear regression, we used sequence number to predict mean and standard deviations across all health states. We repeated the analysis separately for TTO responses indicating a state better than death and a state worse than death. Each TTO value requires a specific number of choice iterations. To test whether respondents used fewer iterations with experience, we used linear regression with sequence number as the independent variable and number of iterations as the dependent variable.Mean TTO values were fairly stable across the sequence number, but analyzing state better than death and state worse than death values separately revealed a tendency toward more extreme values: state better than death values increased by 0.02, while state worse than death values decreased by 0.21 (P < 0.0001) over the full sequence. The standard deviations increased slightly, while the number of choice iterations was the same over the sequence number. The findings were stable across the levels of health state severity, age, and sex.TTO values become more extreme with increasing experience. Because of the randomized valuation order, these effects do not bias specific health states; however, they reduce the overall validity and reliability of TTO values.Health state values are by convention anchored to 'perfect health' and 'death.' Attitudes toward death may consequently influence the valuations. We used attitudes toward euthanasia (ATE) as a sub-construct for attitudes toward death. We compared the influence on values elicited with time trade-off (TTO), lead-time TTO (LT-TTO) and visual analogue scale (VAS).Since the 'death' anchor is most explicit in TTO, we hypothesized that TTO values would be most influenced by ATE.Respondents valued eight EQ-5D health states with VAS, then TTO (n = 328) or LT-TTO (n = 484). We measured ATE on a scale from -2 (fully disagree) to 2 (fully agree) and used multiple linear regressions to predict VAS, TTO, and LT-TTO values by ATE, sex, age, and education.A one-point increase on the ATE scale predicted a mean TTO value change of -.113 and LT-TTO change of -.072. Demographic variables, but not ATE, predicted VAS values.TTO appears to measure ATE in addition to preferences for health states. Different ways of incorporating death in the valuation may impact substantially on the resulting values. 'Death' is a metaphysically unknown concept, and implications of attitudes toward death should be investigated further to evaluate the appropriateness of using 'death' as an anchor.A severe burn not only affects the patients, but may also have a great impact on the lives of family members. It is known that family members of patients with burns experience psychological distress, but health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has not been studied in this group. The aim was to study predictors of HRQoL in family members of patients with burns. Forty-four family members of adult patients treated in a burn center, between 2000 and 2007, completed questionnaires during care, and at 3, 6, and 12 months after injury. HRQoL was assessed with the EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D), which consists of the dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain, and anxiety/depression. The questionnaire generates an EQ-5D index and a visual analog scale (VAS) score. Overall, the EQ-5D index was similar to that of the general population. A slight improvement in HRQoL was found in the VAS scores and in the anxiety/depression dimension over time. In regression models, HRQoL was primarily predicted by earlier life events, symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, and HRQoL, assessed during the patients' hospitalization. In summary, HRQoL assessed with VAS scores increased slightly during the first year postburn, and early screening for life events and psychological symptoms, and HRQoL might be useful in identifying family members in need of support.To study whether health utility scores can be derived from shoulder-specific scores.Authors investigated two questions: (1) do the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score and the Constant score correlate with the EuroQoL (EQ-5D), a measure of health utility? (2) can the ASES and Constant scores be obtained from a complete study sample without bias? Thirty subjects with various shoulder diagnoses completed ASES, Constant, and EQ-5D instruments. Pearson correlations were calculated to assess the associations between EQ-5D score and ASES and Constant scores.The correlation between EQ-5D score and ASES score was 0.60 (P < 0.001); it was 0.54 for EQ-5D and Constant scores (P < 0.003). A multiple regression model containing ASES score, Constant score, age, and gender failed to adequately predict EQ-5D. Moreover, 25% of patients meeting the inclusion criteria did not complete the ASES questionnaire because they did not feel that specific questions, such as "do usual sport - list" and "throw ball overhand," applied to them.Authors' results do not support the use of the ASES and Constant scores in predicting EuroQol health utility values. However, the Constant score was more suitable for this patient population because all patients were able to complete it.Following arthroplasty of the knee, the patient's perception of improvement in symptoms is fundamental to the assessment of outcome. Better clinical outcome may offset the inferior survival observed for some types of implant. By examining linked National Joint Registry (NJR) and patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) data, we aimed to compare PROMs collected at a minimum of six months post-operatively for total (TKR: n = 23,393) and unicondylar knee replacements (UKR: n = 505). Improvements in knee-specific (Oxford knee score, OKS) and generic (EuroQol, EQ-5D) scores were compared and adjusted for case-mix differences using multiple regression. Whereas the improvements in the OKS and EQ-5D were significantly greater for TKR than for UKR, once adjustments were made for case-mix differences and pre-operative score, the improvements in the two scores were not significantly different. The adjusted mean differences in the improvement of OKS and EQ-5D were 0.0 (95% confidence interval (CI) -0.9 to 0.9; p = 0.96) and 0.009 (95% CI -0.034 to 0.015; p = 0.37), respectively. We found no difference in the improvement of either knee-specific or general health outcomes between TKR and UKR in a large cohort of registry patients. With concerns about significantly higher revision rates for UKR observed in worldwide registries, we question the widespread use of an arthroplasty that does not confer a significant benefit in clinical outcome.Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) are increasingly being used to assess functional outcome and patient satisfaction. They provide a framework for comparisons between surgical units, and individual surgeons for benchmarking and financial remuneration. Better performance may bring the reward of more customers as patients and commissioners seek out high performers for their elective procedures. Using National Joint Registry (NJR) data linked to PROMs we identified 22,691 primary total knee replacements (TKRs) undertaken for osteoarthritis in England and Wales between August 2008 and February 2011, and identified the surgical factors that influenced the improvements in the Oxford knee score (OKS) and EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) assessment using multiple regression analysis. After correction for patient factors the only surgical factors that influenced PROMs were implant brand and hospital type (both p < 0.001). However, the effects of surgical factors upon the PROMs were modest compared with patient factors. For both the OKS and the EQ-5D the most important factors influencing the improvement in PROMs were the corresponding pre-operative score and the patient's general health status. Despite having only a small effect on PROMs, this study has shown that both implant brand and hospital type do influence reported subjective functional scores following TKR. In the current climate of financial austerity, proposed performance-based remuneration and wider patient choice, it would seem unwise to ignore these effects and the influence of a range of additional patient factors.To determine functional outcomes 6 months after intensive care unit admission for severe infection due to pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza and examine the relationship between nutrition during ICU admission and outcome.Retrospective cohort study of patients with confirmed H1N1 influenza admitted to the ICU, Royal Adelaide Hospital, South Australia, June- October 2009.Data were collected from medical records, dietitian notes and the daily ICU chart and included: demographics, daily kilocalories (Kcal) and protein delivered compared with dietitian-calculated requirement, ICU and hospital length of stay. Weight change and functional outcome at 6 months were determined prospectively by telephone interview using the 12-Item Short Form Health Survey and the EuroQol Group 5-Dimension Questionnaire.Of 25 patients with H1N1 infection, 23 were included in the study (14 men; median age, 48 years (interquartile range [IQR], 39-55 years); median Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II score, 17 (IQR, 13-21); median ICU length of stay, 9 days (IQR, 4-15 days); median hospital length of stay, 20 days (IQR, 11-30 days); ICU mortality, 3 (13%; 95% CI, 4%- 33%). Enteral feeding was commenced in 16 patients, who received a mean of 71% (SD, 27%; 95% CI, 57%-86%) of their energy and 62% (SD, 25%; 95% CI, 49%-75%) of their protein goals over their ICU stay. A more negative protein balance was associated with prolonged ICU stay (r = - 0.746; P = 0.003). Reduced success of feeding was associated with increased severity of illness and shorter ICU length of stay. Patients reported a good functional outcome at 6 months.Patients admitted to this ICU with H1N1 infection were fed successfully during their stay. Critically ill patients surviving H1N1 infection had good functional outcomes at 6 months.Rosacea is a chronic inflammatory dermatosis affecting >2% of the population. Willingness to pay (WTP) is a well established method which reflects the individual burden of disease.Evaluation of WTP and quality of life (QoL) in patients with rosacea.Nationwide postal survey on adult patients with rosacea affiliated with the German rosacea patient advocacy group. WTP was evaluated by three standardized items and compared to historical data on vitiligo (n = 1023). QoL was assessed using the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI).Data from n = 475 rosacea patients (79.9% women, mean age 56.3, range 26-90) were analysed. On average, patients were willing to pay € 2880 (median € 500) for complete healing compared with € 7360 (median € 3000) in vitiligo. Relative WTP was higher in women; the highest sums were registered for the age group 21-30 years. The extent of facial involvement predicted a higher relative WTP, whereas WTP decreased with the duration of symptoms and age. Mean DLQI total score was 4.3 compared to 7.0 in vitiligo. In rosacea, the highest values were observed in patients <30 years. Severe QoL reductions (DLQI>10) were less frequent (11%) than in vitiligo (24.6%). The correlation between WTP and DLQI was significant (e.g. r = 0.249, P = 0.000 for relative WTP).Rosacea patients show a moderate WTP and average QoL reduction is mild. WTP proved to be a valid tool to assess patients' burden of disease. Patient education and the development of effective treatment options might still improve patients' satisfaction.Patients with fibromyalgia (FM) rate stiffness as one of the most troublesome symptoms of the disorder. However, there are few published studies that have focused on better understanding the nature of stiffness in FM.The primary objectives of these analyses were to characterize the distribution of stiffness severity in patients at baseline, evaluate changes in stiffness after 12 weeks of treatment with duloxetine, and determine which outcomes were correlated with stiffness.These were post-hoc analyses of 3-month data from 4 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies that assessed efficacy of duloxetine in adults with FM. Severity of stiffness was assessed by using the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) on a scale from 0 (no stiffness) to 10 (most severe stiffness). The association between changes in stiffness and other measures was evaluated by using Pearson's correlation coefficient. The FIQ total score and items, the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI-modified short form), the Clinical Global Impression-Severity scale, the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory, the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, the Sheehan Disability Scale, the 36-item Short-Form Health Survey, and the EuroQoL Questionnaire-5 Dimensions were evaluated in the correlation analyses. Stepwise linear regression was used to identify the variables that were most highly predictive of the changes in FIQ stiffness.The analysis included 1332 patients (mean age, 50.2 years; 94.7% female; and 87.8% white). The mean (SD) baseline FIQ stiffness score was 7.7 (2.0), and this score correlated with baseline BPI pain score and FIQ function. Duloxetine significantly improved the FIQ stiffness score compared with placebo (P < 0.001) and provided a moderate effect size (0.23 for the 60-mg dose and 0.38 for the 120-mg dose). Changes in stiffness were best correlated (range, 0.52-0.75; all, P < 0.001) with changes in BPI/FIQ pain and interference scores, FIQ nonrefreshing sleep, FIQ anxiety, 36-item Short-Form Health Survey bodily pain, and Sheehan Disability Scale total score. Variables related to severity of pain, pain interfering with daily activities, and physical functioning were predictors of change in stiffness.Stiffness scores were high in this population with FM and best correlated at baseline with BPI pain score and FIQ function. Not unexpectedly, improvement in stiffness with duloxetine correlated with many of the other markers of FM severity, presumably a result of amelioration in FM comorbidities.What's known on the subject? and What does the study add? Values for equivalent health states can vary substantially depending on the measure used and method of valuation; this has a direct impact on the results of economic analyses. To date, the majority of existing economic evaluations that include UTI as a health state refer to an analysis in which the Index of Well Being was used to estimate the quality of life experienced by young women with UTIs. Currently, there are no validated methods or filters for systematically searching for the type of generic quality of life data required for decision analytic models. This study is the only systematic review of quality of life in people with UTI in the literature. Twelve studies were identified which report quality of life using a variety of generic methods; the results of these papers were summarized in a way that is useful for a health researcher seeking to populate a decision model, design a clinical study or assess the effect of UTI on quality of life relative to other conditions. One research group provided previously unpublished data from a large cohort study; these scores were mapped to EuroQol 5-Dimension values using published algorithms and probabilistic simulations. The aim of this review was to identify studies that have evaluated the impact of symptomatic urinary tract infection (UTI) and UTI-associated bacteraemia on quality of life, and to summarize these data in a way that is useful for a health researcher seeking to populate a cost-utility model, design a clinical study or assess the effect of UTIs on quality of life relative to other conditions. We conducted a systematic search of the literature using MEDLINE, EMBASE, the NHS Economic Evaluations database, Health Technology Assessment database, Health Economics Evaluations database, Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry and EuroQol website. Studies that reported utility values for symptomatic UTI or UTI-associated bacteraemia derived from a generic QoL measurement tool or expert opinion were included. Studies using disease-specific instruments were excluded. Twelve studies were identified that included a generic measure of health-related quality of life for patients with UTIs. These measures included: the short-form (SF)-36 and SF-12 questionnaires; the Health Utilities Index Mark 2; Quality of Well Being; the Index of Well Being, standard gamble; the Health and Activity Limitation Index; and expert opinion. The authors of studies using either of the SF questionnaires were contacted for additional data. One research group provided previously unpublished data from a large cohort study; these scores were mapped to EuroQol 5-Dimension (EQ-5D) values using published algorithms and probabilistic simulations. The present review provides health researchers with several sources from which to select utility values to populate cost-utility models. It also shows that very few studies have measured quality of life in patients with UTI using generic preference-based measures of health and none have evaluated the impact of this health state on quality of life in children. Future studies ought to consider the inclusion of commonly used preference-based measures of health, such as the EQ-5D, in all patient populations experiencing symptomatic UTI or UTI-related complications.The objective of this paper is to investigate drivers of cost and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) related to disease activity and fatigue among patients with systemic lupus erythematous (SLE). A questionnaire was sent to members of a patient organization with a self-reported diagnosis of SLE, requesting information on demographics and disease characteristics, medications, resource utilization, informal care, loss of productivity, fatigue and HRQoL in relation to SLE. Mean annual costs per patient were estimated from a societal perspective. HRQoL was measured through EQ-5D and fatigue was measured through a 10 cm VAS scale. Patient-reported disease activity was measured through the Systemic Lupus Activity Questionnaire (SLAQ) and corticosteroid dose. Drivers of costs and HRQoL were analyzed through regression analysis. A total of 339 patients out of 737 returned the questionnaire. Mean age was 55; 94% were female. The mean HRQoL measured through the five-item EQ-5D instrument was 0.64 and total costs were estimated at €22,594 (direct costs €7818; indirect costs €14,776). Disease activity, fatigue and corticosteroid doses had a statistically significant impact on costs and HRQoL. This study demonstrates that Swedish patients with SLE have low HRQoL and incur high societal costs and that are both associated with and most likely driven by disease activity, fatigue and corticosteroid use.OBJECTIVE OF ANALYSIS: The objective of this analysis is to examine the safety and effectiveness of percutaneous vertebroplasty for treatment of osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures (VCFs) compared with conservative treatment.Osteoporosis and associated fractures are important health issues in ageing populations. Vertebral compression fracture secondary to osteoporosis is a cause of morbidity in older adults. VCFs can affect both genders, but are more common among elderly females and can occur as a result of a fall or a minor trauma. The fracture may occur spontaneously during a simple activity such as picking up an object or rising up from a chair. Pain originating from the fracture site frequently increases with weight bearing. It is most severe during the first few weeks and decreases with rest and inactivity. Traditional treatment of painful VCFs includes bed rest, analgesic use, back bracing and muscle relaxants. The comorbidities associated with VCFs include deep venous thrombosis, acceleration of osteopenea, loss of height, respiratory problems and emotional problems due to chronic pain. Percutaneous vertebroplasty is a minimally invasive surgical procedure that has gained popularity as a new treatment option in the care for these patients. The technique of vertebroplasty was initially developed in France to treat osteolytic metastasis, myeloma, and hemangioma. The indications were further expanded to painful osteoporotic VCFs and subsequently to treatment of asymptomatic VCFs. The mechanism of pain relief, which occurs within minutes to hours after vertebroplasty, is still not known. Pain pathways in the surrounding tissue appear to be altered in response to mechanical, chemical, vascular, and thermal stimuli after the injection of the cement. It has been suggested that mechanisms other than mechanical stabilization of the fracture, such as thermal injury to the nerve endings, results in immediate pain relief.Percutaneous vertebroplasty is performed with the patient in prone position and under local or general anesthesia. The procedure involves fluoroscopic imaging to guide the injection of bone cement into the fractured vertebral body to support the fractured bone. After injection of the cement, the patient is placed in supine position for about 1 hour while the cement hardens. Cement leakage is the most frequent complication of vertebroplasty. The leakages may remain asymptomatic or cause symptoms of nerve irritation through compression of nerve roots. There are several reports of pulmonary cement embolism (PCE) following vertebroplasty. In some cases, the PCE may remain asymptomatic. Symptomatic PCE can be recognized by their clinical signs and symptoms such as chest pain, dyspnea, tachypnea, cyanosis, coughing, hemoptysis, dizziness, and sweating.A literature search was performed on Feb 9, 2010 using OVID MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, EMBASE, the Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), the Cochrane Library, and the International Agency for Health Technology Assessment (INAHTA) for studies published from January 1, 2005 to February 9, 2010. Studies were initially reviewed by titles and abstracts. For those studies meeting the eligibility criteria, full-text articles were obtained and reviewed. Reference lists were also examined for any additional relevant studies not identified through the search. Articles with an unknown eligibility were reviewed with a second clinical epidemiologist and then a group of epidemiologists until consensus was established. Data extraction was carried out by the author.Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing vertebroplasty with a control group or other interventionsAdult patients with osteoporotic vertebral fracturesSTUDY SAMPLE SIZE: Studies included 20 or more patientsEnglish language full-reportsPublished between Jan 1 2005 and Feb 9, 2010(eligible studies identified through the Auto Alert function of the search were also included)Non-randomized studiesStudies on conditions other than VCF (e.g. patients with multiple myeloma or metastatic tumors)Studies focused on surgical techniquesStudies lacking outcome measures RESULTS OF EVIDENCE-BASED ANALYSIS: A systematic search yielded 168 citations. The titles and the abstracts of the citations were reviewed and full text of the identified citations was retrieved for further consideration. Upon review of the full publications and applying the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 5 RCTs were identified. Of these, two compared vertebroplasty with sham procedure, two compared vertebroplasty with conservative treatment, and one compared vertebroplasty with balloon kyphoplasty.Recently, the results of two blinded randomized placebo-controlled trials of percutaneous vertebroplasty were reported. These trials, providing the highest quality of evidence available to date, do not support the use of vertebroplasty in patients with painful osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures. Based on the results of these trials, vertebroplasty offer no additional benefit over usual care and is not risk free. In these trials the treatment allocation was blinded to the patients and outcome assessors. The control group received a sham procedure simulating vertebroplasty to minimize the effect of expectations and to reduce the potential for bias in self-reporting of outcomes. Both trials applied stringent exclusion criteria so that the results are generalizable to the patient populations that are candidates for vertebroplasty. In both trials vertebroplasty procedures were performed by highly skilled interventionists. Multiple valid outcome measures including pain, physical, mental, and social function were employed to test the between group differences in outcomes. Prior to these two trials, there were two open randomized trials in which vertebroplasty was compared with conservative medical treatment. In the first randomized trial, patients were allowed to cross over to the other arm and had to be stopped after two weeks due to the high numbers of patients crossing over. The other study did not allow cross over and recently published the results of 12 months follow-up. The following is the summary of the results of these 4 trials: Two blinded RCTs on vertebroplasty provide the highest level of evidence available to date. Results of these two trials are supported by findings of an open randomized trial with 12 months follow-up. Blinded RCTs showed: No significant differences in pain scores of patients who received vertebroplasty and patients who received a sham procedure as measured at 3 days, 2 weeks and 1 month in one study and at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months in the other.The observed differences in pain scores between the two groups were neither statistically significant nor clinically important at any time points.The above findings were consistent with the findings of an open RCT in which patients were followed for 12 months. This study showed that improvement in pain was similar between the two groups at 3 months and were sustained to 12 months.In the blinded RCTs, physical, mental, and social functioning were measured at the above time points using 4-5 of the following 7 instruments: RDQ, EQ-5D, SF-36 PCS, SF-36 MCS, AQoL, QUALEFFO, SOF-ADLThere were no significant differences in any of these measures between patients who received vertebroplasty and patients who received a sham procedure at any of the above time points (with a few exceptions in favour of control intervention).These findings were also consistent with the findings of an open RCT which demonstrated no significant between group differences in scores of ED-5Q, SF-36 PCS, SF 36 MCS, DPQ, Barthel, and MMSE which measure physical, mental, and social functioning (with a few exceptions in favour of control intervention).One small (n=34) open RCT with a two week follow-up detected a significantly higher improvement in pain scores at 1 day after the intervention in vertebroplasty group compared with conservative treatment group. However, at 2 weeks follow-up, this difference was smaller and was not statistically significant.Conservative treatment was associated with fewer clinically important complicationsRisk of new VCFs following vertebroplasty was higher than those in conservative treatment but it requires further investigation.The Patient Education Program Parkinson (PEPP) is a standardized psychosocial intervention aiming at improving the health-related quality of life (Hr-Qol) of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and caregivers. A randomized controlled trial was performed to assess its effectiveness. Sixty-four PD patients and 46 caregivers were allocated to either the intervention group (PEPP) or the control group (usual care). The intervention consisted of eight weekly sessions of 90-minute duration. Assessments were performed on psychosocial problems (BELA-P/A-k), Hr-Qol (PDQ-39/EQ-5D) and depression (SDS) at baseline and one week after the end of the PEPP. Participants rated their mood on a visual analogue scale before and after each session. A significant effect for the caregivers on psychosocial problems and need for help was found and a trend for significance for patients' quality of life. Patients' and caregivers' mood improved significantly after each session. This study provides indications that PD patients and caregivers benefit from the PEPP.To describe within the context of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF), patient's experiences post-lumber fusion regarding back problems, recovery and expectations of rehabilitation and to contrast with the content of outcome measures and the ICF low back pain (LBP) core sets.The study has a cross-sectional and retrospective design and involves 20 lumbar fusion patients. Using the ICF, qualitative content analysis of semi-structured interviews 3-6 months post-surgery was performed. This was compared with the ICF related content of the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Medical Outcome Study Short Form 36 (SF-36), European Quality of Life Questionnaire (EQ5D) and the ICF LBP core sets.Patient's experiences were most frequently linked to psychological, sensory, neuromusculoskeletal and movement related body function chapters of the ICF. The most frequently linked categories of activity and participation were mobility, domestic activities, family relationships, work, recreation and leisure. Environmental factors frequently linked were the use of analgesics, walking aids, family support, social security systems, health care systems and labour market employment services.This study highlights important ICF related aspects of patient's experiences post-lumber fusion. The use of the comprehensive ICF core sets is recommended in conjunction with ODI, SF-36 and the EQ5D for a broader analysis of patient outcomes post-lumbar fusion.This paper presents a new scoring algorithm for the SF-6D, one of the most popular preference-based health status measures. Previous SF-6D value sets have a minimum (a floor), which is substantially higher than the lowest value generated by the EQ-5D model. Our algorithm expands the range of SF-6D utility scores in such a way that the floor is significantly lowered. We obtain the wider range because of the use of a lottery equivalent method through which preferences from a representative sample of Spanish general population are elicited.EQ-5D is a generic measure that permits comparisons in quality of life across disease states, and which may provide useful data for health policy and resource allocation decision-making. There are no published reports on the acceptability and psychometric properties of the EQ-5D in the Arabic language. We therefore investigated the validity and reliability of the Arabic translation of the EQ-5D in Jordan.The study was conducted on a convenience sample consisting of consecutive adult Arabic-speaking outpatients or visitors attending a university teaching hospital. Subjects were interviewed twice using a standardized questionnaire containing the EQ-5D, Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36). To assess the validity of the Arabic version of the EQ-5D, ten hypotheses relating responses to EQ-5D dimensions or the visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) to SF-36 scores or other variables were examined and test-retest reliability was assessed.The study included 186 subjects who had a mean age of 45.3 years and included 87 (47%) females. The major problem reported in more than 102 (55%) of the subjects was anxiety/depression. All of the ten apriori hypothesis relating EQ-5D responses to external variables were fulfilled. Cohenâs k for test-retest reliability (n=52) ranged from 0.48 to 1.0.The Arabic translation of EQ-5D appears to be valid and reliable in measuring quality of life in Jordanian people.To examine several dimensions of health-related quality of life (HRQL) in postmenopausal women who report previous fractures, and to provide perspective by comparing these findings with those in other chronic conditions (diabetes, arthritis, lung disease).Fractures are a major cause of morbidity among older women. Few studies have examined HRQL in women who have had prior fractures and the effect of prior fracture location on HRQL. In this observational study of 57,141 postmenopausal women aged 55 years and older (enrollment from December 2007 to March 2009) from 17 study sites in 10 countries, HRQL was measured using the European Quality of Life 5 Dimensions Index (EQ-5D) and the health status, physical function, and vitality questions of the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36).Reductions in EQ-5D health-utility scores and SF-36-measured health status, physical function, and vitality were seen in association with 9 of 10 fracture locations. Spine, hip, and upper leg fractures resulted in the greatest reductions in quality of life (EQ-5D scores, 0.62, 0.64, and 0.61, respectively, vs 0.79 without prior fracture). Women with fractures at any of these 3 locations, as well as women with a history of multiple fractures (EQ-5D scores, 0.74 for 1 prior fracture, 0.68 for 2, and 0.58 for >/=3), had reductions in HRQL that were similar to or worse than those in women with other chronic diseases (0.67 for diabetes, 0.69 for arthritis, and 0.71 for lung disease).Previous fractures at a variety of bone locations, particularly spine, hip, and upper leg, or involving more than 1 location are associated with significant reductions in quality of life.This study evaluated the benefits of ZOL versus placebo on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) among patients from HORIZON-RFT. At month 24 and end of the study visit, ZOL significantly improved patients' overall health state compared to placebo as assessed by the EQ-5D VAS.To evaluate the benefits of zoledronic acid (ZOL) versus placebo on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) among patients from The Health Outcomes and Reduced Incidence With Zoledronic Acid Once Yearly Recurrent Fracture Trial (HORIZON-RFT).In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 2,127 patients were randomized to receive annual infusion of ZOL 5 mg (n = 1,065) or placebo (n = 1,062) within 90 days after surgical repair of low-trauma hip fracture. HRQoL was measured using EQ-5D Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) and utility scores (EuroQol instrument) at months 6, 12, 24, 36, and end of the study visit. Analysis of covariance model included baseline EQ-5D value, region, and treatment as explanatory variables.At baseline, patients (mean age 75 years; 24% men and 76% women) were well matched between treatment groups with mean EQ-5D VAS of 65.82 in ZOL and 65.70 in placebo group. At the end of the study, mean change from baseline in EQ-5D VAS was greater for ZOL vs. placebo in all patients (7.67 ± 0.56 vs. 5.42 ± 0.56), and in subgroups of patients experiencing clinical vertebral fractures (8.86 ± 4.91 vs. -1.69 ± 3.42), non-vertebral fractures (5.03 ± 2.48 vs. -1.07 ± 2.16), and clinical fractures (5.19 ± 2.25 vs. -0.72 ± 1.82) with treatment difference significantly in favor of ZOL. EQ-5D utility scores were comparable for ZOL and placebo groups, but more patients on placebo consistently had extreme difficulty in mobility (1.74% for ZOL vs. 2.13% for placebo; p = 0.6238), self-care (4.92% vs. 6.69%; p = 0.1013), and usual activities (10.28% vs. 12.91%; p = 0.0775).ZOL significantly improves HRQoL in patients with low-trauma hip fracture.Baseline characteristics of the population enrolled in the ISSO study, designed to evaluate the incidence of vertebral and non-vertebral fractures in Italian patients with severe osteoporosis treated according to clinical practice over 24 months observation.Prospective observational study in 783 post-menopausal women and men entering 18-month treatment with teriparatide in a community setting at 57 centres in Italy. Characterisation included demographics, fracture risk factors, bone mineral density, fracture status, Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measured by the European Quality of Life Questionnaire, EQ-5D, and back pain assessed by VAS.Most patients were elderly women (90.5%), mean age±SD was 72.9±8.8 years. Nearly all (91.3%) had experienced ≥ 1 vertebral fracture (mean±SD, 3.6±2.2 per patient), 37.5% had ≥ 1 non-vertebral fracture (mean±SD, 1.4±0.7 per patient). Nearly all patients were suffering from back pain (94.9%), which had significantly restricted their daily activities (51.7%) and had likely or very likely been caused by vertebral fractures (29.2% and 55.8%, respectively). Mean EuroQoL EQ-5D index value was 0.58±0.25 and VAS score 49.2±23.6. Non-vertebral fractures, back pain and multiple vertebral fractures were associated with lower HRQoL (EuroQoL-5D Index both p<0.001, EQ-5D VAS score p=0.025 and p<0.016, respectively). Many patients were physically inactive (81.1%). One third (34.7%) of population had co-morbidities and 60.5% were on chronic concomitant treatments. Few subjects reported a maternal history of osteoporosis (15.5%), regular consumption of alcohol (13.3%) or were current smokers (11.5%). Nearly two-thirds (71.5%) had already been treated for osteoporosis, mainly with bisphosphonates. Calcium and vitamin D supplements were taken by 13% and 15.5% of the total population, respectively.At enrollment, the population of ISSO study mostly consisted in aging women, who had osteoporosis with high fracture risk, poor HRQoL and suffered from significant back pain. Most of them had already been treated by bisphosphonates but without calcium and vitamin D supplements. Back pain, as well as non-vertebral and multiple vertebral fractures, were associated with lower HRQoL.It is well established that there are problems with the EQ-5D. This is due to the original scoring methods used and how negative time trade-off (TTO) values were treated. A revised scoring method has been published. This article applies this to an inflammatory arthritis cohort. The objective is to examine the impact of a revised scoring system for the EQ-5D (UK) TTO on the utility estimates and in the case of rheumatoid arthritis, to explore the impact of using different utility metrics on the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) results of an economic model.A total of 504 patients with inflammatory arthritis were rescored using revised EQ-5D scoring, which uses an episodic random utility model to deal with negative TTO values. Differences in utility scores were compared and the new mapping coefficients were obtained. These were then used in an economic model to examine the impact on the ICER.In rheumatoid arthritis, the overall change is less for the revised EQ-5D scoring than with the original EQ-5D (TTO) but greater than the SF-6D: EQ-5D UK -0.22 (95% confidence interval [CI] -0.30 to -0.15), revised EQ-5D UK -0.16 (95% CI -0.21 to -0.10) and SF-6D -0.08 (95% CI -0.11 to -0.05). A similar trend is seen in the psoriatic arthritis group. The economic model produced different ICERs, when different utility measures were used; EQ-5D (TTO) €42,402, SF-6D €111,788, and revised EQ-5D (TTO) €57,747.In the context of inflammatory arthritis, this article demonstrates that a revised scoring for EQ-5D may have a significant impact on utility estimates and on the output of the economic model.The growth of economic analyses and in particular cost-utility analyses (CUA), which use the QALY as a measure of outcome, has heightened the interest in the methodologies used to calculate the QALY. The EQ-5D has produced quite different utility values from that of the SF-6D. This article seeks to understand these differences using a cohort of patients with inflammatory arthritis.To examine the relationship between the disease-specific measure, Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) disability index (DI) and the preference-based measures, SF-6D, EQ-5D and European League Against Arthritis (EULAR) Disease Activity Score (DAS) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and psoriatic arthritis (PsA).Patients with RA and PsA (n = 504) attending a tertiary rheumatology referral centre completed the HAQ, SF-6D and the EQ-5D before starting biological therapy and again 12 months later. The SF-36 was converted into a utility using the preference-based SF-6D. Clinical outcomes such as the DAS, joint counts and laboratory measures were also recorded. We calculated single index utility scores from the preference-based instruments using UK population norms. We used regression analysis to derive a mapping function and calculated utility scores from the HAQDI and the DAS 28.The mean utility observed at baseline for RA was 0.43 for the EQ-5D and 0.54 for the SF-6D and for PsA was 0.49 for the EQ-5D and 0.57 for the SF-6D. The utility gain demonstrated by the EQ-5D was over twice that of the SF-6D. The EQ-5D scored 17% of the RA group as less than 0 (state defined as worse than death); 7% of this group remained less than 0 at follow-up. The distribution of the utility estimates was similar for both RA and PsA.Our findings draw attention to the impact of states worse than death on the overall distribution for the EQ-5D derived utilities and how these impact on its use in practice. EQ-5D-derived QALY changes are over twice that of the SF-6D. The implication of this for decision makers is that cost-effectiveness evaluations for treatments in this disease class are likely to be very sensitive to the choice of utility measure.Cross-sectional study in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS).To evaluate the repeatability, reliability, internal consistency, and concurrent validity (CD) of an adapted Norwegian version of the Scoliosis Research Society 22 questionnaire (SRS-22) and the generic health-related quality of life instrument EuroQol (EQ-5D and EQ-VAS).SRS-22 is widely used for evaluation of health-related quality of life in AIS. Its repeatability, which is essential for use in follow-up studies, and CD with EuroQol which can be used for cost-utility analysis, has not yet been assessed.The forward-backward translation of the English version of the SRS-22 was performed according to guidelines for cross-cultural adaptation of outcome questionnaires. Fifty-seven patients of various ages with AIS and deformity severity filled out standardized questionnaires: SRS-22, EQ-5D, and EQ-VAS, each twice in a 2-week interval. The study was approved by the Regional Ethics Committee for Medical Research in Norway.There were no floor or ceiling effects on the score distributions. The study demonstrated moderate internal consistency and high reliability of SRS-22 questionnaire with Chronbach alpha and intraclass correlation coefficiency ranging from 0.76 to 0.93 for the 5 domains. Repeatability was excellent for all SRS-22 domains with repeatability coefficients <1. CD with EQ-5D was poor to moderate with Pearson's r ranging from 0.14 to 0.58. However, total scores of the 2 instruments showed satisfactory agreement.The SRS-22 outcome instrument has satisfactory repeatability, but CD with EQ-5D suggests that the disease-specific and the generic questionnaire measure different constructs.Transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) for spondylolisthesis-associated back and leg pain is associated with improvement in pain, disability, and quality of life. However, given the rising health care costs associated with spinal fusion procedures and varying results of recent cost-utility studies, the cost-effectiveness of TLIF remains unclear. The authors set out to assess the comprehensive costs of TLIF at their institution and to determine its cost-effectiveness in the treatment of degenerative spondylolisthesis.Forty-five patients undergoing TLIF for Grade I degenerative spondylolisthesis-associated back and leg pain after 6-12 months of conservative therapy were included. The authors assessed the 2-year back pain visual analog scale (VAS) score, leg pain VAS score, Oswestry Disability Index, and total back-related medical resource utilization, missed work, and health-state values (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], calculated from EQ-5D with US valuation). Two-year resource use was multiplied by unit costs based on Medicare national allowable payment amounts (direct cost), and patient and caregiver workday losses were multiplied by the self-reported gross-of-tax wage rate (indirect cost). The mean total 2-year cost per QALY gained after TLIF was assessed.Compared with preoperative health states reported after at least 6 months of medical management, a significant improvement in back pain VAS score, leg pain VAS score, and Oswestry Disability Index was observed 2 years after TLIF, with a mean 2-year gain of 0.86 QALYs. The mean ± SD total 2-year cost of TLIF was $36,836 ± $11,800 (surgery cost, $21,311 ± $2800; outpatient resource utilization cost, $3940 ± $2720; indirect cost, $11,584 ± $11,363). Transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion was associated with a mean 2-year cost per QALY gained of $42,854.Transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion improved pain, disability, and quality of life in patients with degenerative spondylolisthesis-associated back and leg pain. The total cost per QALY gained for TLIF was $42,854 when evaluated 2 years after surgery with Medicare fees, suggesting that TLIF is a cost-effective treatment of lumbar spondylolisthesis.Over the past decade, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of spinal fusions performed in the US and a corresponding increase in the incidence of adjacent-segment disease (ASD). Surgical management of symptomatic ASD consists of decompression of neural elements and extension of fusion. It has been shown to have favorable long-term outcomes, but the cost-effectiveness remains unclear. In this study, the authors set out to assess the cost-effectiveness of revision surgery in the treatment of ASD over a 2-year period.Fifty patients undergoing neural decompression and extension of fusion construct for ASD-associated back and leg pain were included in the study. Two-year total back-related medical resource utilization, missed work, and health state values (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], calculated from the EQ-5D with US valuation) were assessed. Two-year resource use was multiplied by unit costs based on Medicare national allowable payment amounts (direct cost), and patient and caregiver workday losses were multiplied by the self-reported gross-of-tax wage rate (indirect cost). Mean total 2-year cost per QALY gained after revision surgery was assessed.The mean (± SD) interval between prior fusion and revision surgery for ASD was 3.07 ± 2.02 years. A mean cumulative 2-year gain of 0.76 QALYs was observed after revision surgery. The mean total 2-year cost of extension of fusion constructs was $47,846 ± $32,712 (surgery cost: $24,063 ± $300; outpatient resource utilization cost: $4175 ± $3368; indirect cost: $19,607 ± $32,187). Revision decompression and extension of fusion was associated with a mean 2-year cost per QALY gained of $62,955.In the authors' practice, revision decompression and extension of fusion provided a significant gain in health state utility for patients with symptomatic ASD, with a 2-year cost per QALY gained of $62,995. When indicated, revision surgery for ASD is a valuable treatment option for patients experiencing back and leg pain secondary to ASD. The findings provide a value measure of surgery that can be compared with future cost-per-QALY-gained studies of medical management or alternative surgical approaches.The number of low-back fusion procedures for the treatment of spine disorders has increased steadily over the past 10 years. Lumbar pseudarthrosis is a potential complication of lumbar arthrodesis and can be associated with significant pain and disability. The aim of this study was to assess, using validated patient-reported outcomes measures, the long-term effectiveness of revision arthrodesis in the treatment of symptomatic pseudarthrosis.This is a retrospective study of 47 patients who underwent revision lumbar arthrodesis for pseudarthrosis-associated back pain. Baseline 2-year outcomes were assessed using the following: visual analog scale (VAS) for back pain, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale, time to narcotic independence, time to return to work, EuroQol health-state utility, and physical and mental quality of life (Short Form [SF]-12 Physical and Mental Component Summary scores).The mean duration of time between prior fusion and development of symptomatic pseudarthrosis was 2.69 years. Bone morphogenetic protein was used in 4 cases (8.5%) of revision arthrodesis. A significant improvement in VAS back pain (7.31 ± 0.81 vs 5.06 ± 2.64, p = 0.001), ODI (29.74 ± 5.35 vs 25.42 ± 6.0, p = 0.001), and physical health SF-12 (23.83 ± 6.89 vs 27.85 ± 8.90, p = 0.001) scores was observed when comparing baseline and 2-year post-revision arthrodesis scores, respectively, with a mean cumulative 2-year gain of 0.35 quality-adjusted life years. The median time to narcotics independence was 12.16 (interquartile range 1.5-24.0) months and the median time to return to work was 4 months (interquartile range 3-5 months). By 2 years after revision surgery, no patients had experienced pseudarthrosis. The SF-12 Mental Component Summary (44.72 ± 7.90 vs 43.46 ± 7.51, p = 0.43) and Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale scores (39.36 ± 7.48 vs 41.39 ± 10.72, p = 0.37) were not significantly improved by 2 years.The authors' study suggests that revision lumbar arthrodesis for symptomatic pseudarthrosis provides improvement in low-back pain, disability, and quality of life. Revision lumbar arthrodesis should be considered a viable treatment option for patients with pseudarthrosis-related back pain. Mental health symptoms from pseudarthrosis-associated back pain may be more refractory to revision surgery.Female gender is a risk factor for sustaining anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. However, little is known about possible sex differences in patients with ACL injury/reconstruction.To study sex differences in patient-reported outcomes before and at 1 and 2 years after ACL reconstruction and to present reference values.Cohort study; Level of evidence, 2.Between 2005 and 2008, 10164 patients (mean age, 27 years; SD, 9.8; 42% females) with primary ACL reconstruction were registered in the Swedish national knee ligament register. There were 4438 (44%) of these patients (42% females) who had completed the knee-specific questionnaire, Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), and 5255 (52%) who had completed the generic score of health status, EQ-5D, before surgery and were included in this study. Independent t tests were used to study sex differences in KOOS and EQ-5D preoperatively, 1 and 2 years postoperatively, and over time.Preoperatively, female patients reported worse scores than male patients in 4 KOOS subscales (pain, symptoms, sport/recreation, quality of life) and EQ-5D, with the largest difference seen in KOOS sport/recreation (mean difference, 4.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 3.0-6.3). At 1 year postoperatively, female patients reported worse scores than male patients in KOOS pain (mean difference, 1.4; 95% CI, 0.4-2.4) and KOOS sport/recreation (mean difference, 2.7; 95% CI, 0.9-4.4) and at 2 years postoperatively in KOOS sport/recreation (mean difference, 4.4; 95% CI, 2.1-6.7) and KOOS quality of life (mean difference, 2.4; 95% CI, 0.4-4.4). Female patients reported less improvement from 1 to 2 years postoperatively than male patients in KOOS sport/recreation (mean difference, 3.2; 95% CI, 0.3-6.1). In some age groups, female patients reported a clinically relevant worse KOOS sport/recreation score than male patients (mean difference > or =8).Female patients reported statistically significant worse outcomes than male patients before and at 1 and 2 years after ACL reconstruction. In some age groups, this difference was also clinically relevant. There were no clinically relevant sex differences in improvements over time. We suggest that possible sex differences be analyzed in future studies on evaluation after ACL injury/reconstruction.Health related quality of life (HRQOL) is an important patient-reported outcome in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We evaluated the psychometric properties of 2 widely used preference-based generic HRQOL measures, EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and Short Form-6D (SF-6D), among United States patients with SLE.Patients with SLE enrolled at an academic institution were assessed for self-reported generic HRQOL (EQ-5D, Medical Outcomes Study SF-36), disease activity, and disease damage SF-6D. Physical Component Score (PCS) and Mental Component Score (MCS) were calculated from SF-36. Criterion validity, convergent validity, and known-groups comparisons were evaluated for EQ-5D and SF-6D. Sensitivity to change (t tests, effect size) was evaluated in a subset of the cohort followed longitudinally.One hundred sixty-seven patients with SLE were enrolled. Related domains on the EQ-5D and SF-36 correlated strongly, e.g., mobility and physical functioning (r=0.60), whereas unrelated domains showed weak to moderate correlation. EQ-5D index, EQ-5D visual analog scale, and SF-6D score correlated strongly among each other as well as with most domains of SF-36. Both EQ-5D and SF-6D indices differentiated among patients of varied disease severity. EQ-5D and SF-6D were found to be sensitive to self-reported change in health but insensitive to change in disease activity longitudinally. Disease activity and damage showed weak correlation with HRQOL measures.The SF-6D and EQ-5D exhibited satisfactory psychometric properties for use among US patients with SLE. Measures of disease activity and damage were weakly correlated with HRQOL, suggesting that HRQOL is an important complementary source of information about patients with SLE.Predictors of medication adherence are not well known in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It is therefore necessary to identify factors associated with adherence to improve the effectiveness of COPD management within real-world situations.The goals of this study were to estimate adherence to respiratory medication and to identify factors related to adherence in COPD patients.This was an observational, cross-sectional study conducted on a sample of COPD outpatients. The following information was obtained: adherence to respiratory therapy (Morisky Medication Adherence Scale), age, gender, smoking status, COPD severity [Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) stage], lung function [post-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV(1))], treatment regimen for COPD, COPD medication costs per month paid by the patient and health-related quality of life (EuroQol 5-dimension questionnaire). A multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed to identify the independent predictors of adherence.Of the 170 participants (mean age 63.8 years, 41.8% male), 58.2% reported optimal adherence. Adherence to respiratory therapy was associated with age, current smoking status, number of respiratory drugs, number of daily respiratory drug doses and quality of life (p < 0.005). Adherence to respiratory therapy was not related to gender, GOLD stage, FEV(1) or COPD medication costs.Adherence to COPD medication regimens is poor. Less frequent dosing regimens could be an effective method to enhance adherence to respiratory therapy. Quality-of-life monitoring within clinical practice settings could facilitate improved medication adherence.The SWISSspine registry is the first mandatory registry of its kind in the history of Swiss orthopaedics and it follows the principle of "coverage with evidence development". Its goal is the generation of evidence for a decision by the Swiss federal office of health about reimbursement of the concerned technologies and treatments by the basic health insurance of Switzerland. Recently, developed and clinically implemented, the Dynardi total disc arthroplasty (TDA) accounted for 10% of the implanted lumbar TDAs in the registry. We compared the outcomes of patients treated with Dynardi to those of the recipients of the other TDAs in the registry. Between March 2005 and October 2009, 483 patients with single-level TDA were documented in the registry. The 52 patients with a single Dynardi lumbar disc prosthesis implanted by two surgeons (CE and OS) were compared to the 431 patients who received one of the other prostheses. Data were collected in a prospective, observational multicenter mode. Surgery, implant, 3-month, 1-year, and 2-year follow-up forms as well as comorbidity, NASS and EQ-5D questionnaires were collected. For statistical analyses, the Wilcoxon signed-rank test and chi-square test were used. Multivariate regression analyses were also performed. Significant and clinically relevant reduction of low back pain and leg pain as well as improvement in quality of life was seen in both groups (P < 0.001 postop vs. preop). There were no inter-group differences regarding postoperative pain levels, intraoperative and follow-up complications or revision procedures with a new hospitalization. However, significantly more Dynardi patients achieved a minimum clinically relevant low back pain alleviation of 18 VAS points and a quality of life improvement of 0.25 EQ-5D points. The patients with Dynardi prosthesis showed a similar outcome to patients receiving the other TDAs in terms of postoperative low back and leg pain, complications, and revision procedures. A higher likelihood for achieving a minimum clinically relevant improvement of low back pain and quality of life in Dynardi patients was observed. This difference might be due to the large number of surgeons using other TDAs compared to only two surgeons using the Dynardi TDA, with corresponding variations in patient selection, patient-physician interaction and other factors, which cannot be assessed in a registry study.For the management of patients with localized prostate cancer, a number of therapeutic options are available. To compare the therapeutic modalities, it is important and necessary to evaluate economical aspects based on cost-effectiveness analysis. In addition, the survival time adjusted by quality of life (QOL), quality adjusted life year (QALY), is more reliable than the crude survival time. Thus, the usefulness of the commonly used QOL utility indexes, EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and visual analogue scale (VAS, 0-100 points), was investigated in prostate cancer patients.A total of 81 patients with prostate cancer were included. The patients were asked to answer the four sets of questionnaires (EQ-5D, VAS, SF-36 and EPIC). The QOL utility indexes (EQ-5D and VAS) were evaluated in relation to the general and prostate cancer-specific QOL questionnaires (SF-36 and EPIC, respectively).The results of EQ-5D and VAS were significantly correlated to all domains of the general QOL questionnaire (SF-36). On the contrary, no remarkable relationship of EQ-5D and VAS was observed with any domain (urinary, bowel, sexual or hormonal) of the prostate cancer-specific QOL questionnaire (EPIC). There was significant and close correlation between the actual values of VAS and the estimates of VAS calculated from SF-36 data (R = 0.53, p < 0.0001).The QOL utility indexes (EQ-5D and VAS) are pertinent to evaluation of QOL utility index in prostate cancer patients and can be utilized for cost-utility analysis. It is suggested that the accumulated data of SF-36 could be used by conversion to QOL utility index.In the course of reformation of the health-care system the impact of measuring the quality of life steadily rises. The current study reports the disease-comprehensive quality of life of the elderly who live in nursing homes and compares these results with the reference value of the German population. Furthermore, the results from the different nursing homes are compared with one another in order to prove the direct influence of the nursing home itself on the subjective quality of life of the habitants. The survey was conducted with the generic questionnaire EQ-5D which is an approved index-instrument for health-related quality of life measurement and has been translated into 102 languages so far. In total 342 persons from 8 different nursing homes took part in the survey, at least 25 persons from each nursing home. On the one hand the results show interesting divergences in the quality of life level between habitants and the German population. Differences of at least 2- up to 10-fold values have been proved. For example, there was a discrepancy in the fields of problems related to the habitant's sex, which was not documented in the study of German population. On the other hand high discrepancies when comparing the nursing homes among each other could be proved, although the age structure as well as the distribution between the sexes in at least 7 nursing homes was identical. So it seems that a direct impact of the nursing home on the quality of life of the habitants could be shown. The present study raises many new questions which implicate the need for further surveys. These findings may have a proximate effect on the future health-care system, which will have to involve age-based health-care provision as well as innovative concepts of caring.Modic type 1 changes/bone edema in the vertebrae are present in 6 % of the general population and 35-40 % of the low back pain population. It is strongly associated with low back pain. The aim was to test the efficacy of antibiotic treatment in patients with chronic low back pain (>6 months) and Modic type 1 changes (bone edema).The study was a double-blind RCT with 162 patients whose only known illness was chronic LBP of greater than 6 months duration occurring after a previous disc herniation and who also had bone edema demonstrated as Modic type 1 changes in the vertebrae adjacent to the previous herniation. Patients were randomized to either 100 days of antibiotic treatment (Bioclavid) or placebo and were blindly evaluated at baseline, end of treatment and at 1-year follow-up.Primary outcome, disease-specific disability, lumbar pain. Secondary outcome leg pain, number of hours with pain last 4 weeks, global perceived health, EQ-5D thermometer, days with sick leave, bothersomeness, constant pain, magnetic resonance image (MRI).144 of the 162 original patients were evaluated at 1-year follow-up. The two groups were similar at baseline. The antibiotic group improved highly statistically significantly on all outcome measures and improvement continued from 100 days follow-up until 1-year follow-up. At baseline, 100 days follow-up, 1-year follow-up the disease-specific disability-RMDQ changed: antibiotic 15, 11, 5.7; placebo 15, 14, 14. Leg pain: antibiotics 5.3, 3.0, 1.4; placebo 4.0, 4.3, 4.3. Lumbar pain: antibiotics 6.7, 5.0, 3.7; placebo 6.3, 6.3, 6.3. For the outcome measures, where a clinically important effect size was defined, improvements exceeded the thresholds, and a trend towards a dose-response relationship with double dose antibiotics being more efficacious.The antibiotic protocol in this study was significantly more effective for this group of patients (CLBP associated with Modic I) than placebo in all the primary and secondary outcomes.To explore the relationship between nutritional status, functional capacity and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in older adults with type 2 diabetes (T2DM).Cross-sectional study.Forty two non-insulin dependent older adults from a primary care center in Seville, Spain.Function was assessed with a battery of standardized physical fitness tests. Nutritional status was assessed using the Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA) and the European Quality of Life Questionnaire (EQ-5D-3L) was used to assess HRQoL.There was an association between MNA-nutritional status and lower body strength as assessed by the chair sit-stand test (rho= .451; p= .037) and between MNA-nutritional status and EQ-5D-3L-HRQoL (EQ-5D-3Lutility, rho= .553; p<.001 and EQ-5D-3LVAS rho= .402; p<.001). An MNA item by item correlation analysis with HRQoL and lower limb strength demonstrated that HRQoL appears to be related to functional capacity (principally lower body strength, motor agility and cardiorespiratory fitness) among participants. These results were maintained when correlations were adjusted for co-morbidity.Our results demonstrated that nutritional status is moderately associated with HRQoL and lower limb strength in patients with T2DM. Our data suggest that more emphasis should be placed on interventions to encourage a correct diet and stress the needed to improve lower body strength to reinforce better mobility in T2DM population.In line with patient-centered health care, it is necessary to understand patients' perceptions of health. How stroke survivors perceive their health at different time points after stroke and which factors are associated with these feelings provide important information about relevant rehabilitation targets.This study aimed to identify the independent factors of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) from a biopsychosocial perspective using the methods of multivariate regression at 3 different time points poststroke.Included in the study were 99 patients from stroke units with diagnosed first-ever stroke. At admission and at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 1 year poststroke, HRQoL was assessed using the EuroQoL-5D Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-5D VAS). Consequences in Body Functions and Activities and Participation, and Environmental Factors were documented using 155 categories of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) Core Set for Stroke.For a period of 1 year, problems with recreation and leisure, personality functions, energy and drive functions, and gait pattern functions were repeatedly associated with worse HRQoL. Whereas Body Functions and Activities and Participation explained more than three-fourths of the variances of HRQoL at 6 weeks and 3 months (R² = 0.80-0.93), the variation at 1 year was best explained by either Body Functions or Environmental Factors (R² = 0.51).The results indicate the importance of Body Functions and Activities and Participation (mainly personality functions and recreation and leisure) on HRQoL within 3 months poststroke, but increased impact of Environmental Factors on HRQoL at 1 year.Limited evidence suggests that visual impairments may influence outcome after stroke. The degree of recovery from these impairments is poorly characterized.To describe recovery and to determine whether visual impairments influence functional outcome and quality of life.We extracted demographic and outcome data from the Virtual International Stroke Trials Archive (VISTA). We examined horizontal eye movement disorders and hemianopia using the Best Gaze and Visual domains of the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and described recovery at 30 and 90 days. Proportional odds modelling was used to examine the association between impairments at baseline, modified Rankin Scale (mRS), and European Quality of Life Score (EQ-5D) at 90 days.Visual impairments were reported in 7,204/11,900 (60.5%) patients at baseline. Complete recovery occurred in 1,398/3,285 (42.6%) and 3,243/7,204 (45.0%) patients by 30 and 90 days respectively. The burden of persistent visual impairment in survivors was 1,135/4,028 (28.2%) at 30 days and 1,915/9,338 (20.5%) at 90 days. Partial gaze palsy (P < .0001; OR = 0.81; 95% CI = 0.74-0.87), forced deviation (P < .0001; OR = 0.48; 95% CI = 0.43-0.53), and complete homonymous hemianopia (P < .0001; OR = 0.67; 95% CI = 0.62-0.73) at baseline were associated with poor mRS at 90 days.The rate of recovery was greater in the first month after stroke, suggesting a potential time frame for interventions. The associations between visual impairments and poor mRS suggest that these impairments should be considered in multidisciplinary assessments and interventions.To estimate the prevalence of partly controlled and uncontrolled asthmatic patients, to evaluate quality of life and healthcare resource consumption.Cross-sectional phase followed by a 12-month prospective phase. Asthma Control Test and the EQ-5D were used.2853 adult patients recruited in 56 Hospital Respiratory Units in Italy were evaluated: 64.4% had controlled asthma, 15.8% partly controlled asthma and 19.8% were uncontrolled. The mean (SD) EQ-5D score was 0.86 (0.17) in controlled, 0.75 (0.20) in partly controlled and 0.69 (0.23) in uncontrolled patients (p<0.001 between groups). The number of patients requiring hospitalization or emergency room visits was lower in controlled (1.8% and 1.6%, respectively) than in partly controlled (5.1% and 11.5%) and uncontrolled (6.4% and 18.6%). A combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and a long-acting beta-2 agonist was the reported therapy by 56.0% of patients, with the rate of controlled asthma and improved quality of life being higher in patients on extrafine beclomethasone/formoterol compared to budesonide/formoterol (p<0.05) and fluticasone/salmeterol (p<0.05 for quality of life).Asthma control is achieved in a good proportion of Italian patients. Differences may be detected in a real-life setting in favor of extrafine beclomethasone/formoterol combination.Variability in indications for total hip replacement (THR) and unequal waiting times may limit health care access.To analyse the relationship between appropriateness and previously developed surgical priority instruments.Multicentre cross-validation study of patients placed on the waiting list for THR. Information on surgical priority, surgeons' evaluation of priority through a visual analogue scale (VAS) and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) (Health Utilities Index mark 3, EQ-5D, Western Ontario McMaster Osteoarthritic Index) was collected. THR indications were considered appropriate, uncertain or inappropriate according to appropriateness criteria. Statistical differences and clinically important differences in surgical priority, VAS and HRQOL between appropriateness categories were analysed with the Mann-Whitney U-test and effect size (ES), respectively. Surgical priority score's ability to discriminate appropriate and inappropriate indications was evaluated through the area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (AUC) and its 95% confidence interval (95% CI).49.4% (87) of the THR indications were deemed appropriate, 39.8% (70) uncertain and 10.8% (19) inappropriate. Differences in surgical priority score, VAS and HRQOL between appropriateness categories were statistically significant. Clinically important differences were generally small (ES, 0.2-0.5) between inappropriate and uncertain, moderate (ES, 0.5-0.8) between uncertain and appropriate, and large (ES > 0.8) between inappropriate and appropriate categories. The AUC to discriminate appropriate and inappropriate indications was 0.97 (95% CI: 0.96-0.99) and 0.90 (95% CI: 0.83-0.97), respectively.The relationship between the surgical priority and appropriateness instruments reinforces their validity and could improve waiting list management by establishing maximum waiting periods based on patients' characteristics.We investigated the association between continuous antipsychotic use and health-related quality of life (HRQL) 3-year change in the European Schizophrenia Outpatients Health Outcomes (EU-SOHO) study.EU-SOHO is an observational study of outcomes associated with antipsychotic treatment for schizophrenia in an outpatient setting. HRQL was assessed at study entry and at 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 months using the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D). UK population time trade-off (TTO) tariffs were applied to the self-rated EQ-5D health states to calculate HRQL ratings (0 = death, 1 = best). An epoch analysis approach was used as a conceptual framework to analyze the longitudinal data. Follow-up was divided into epochs or periods of continuous treatment. When a patient changed antipsychotic treatment, he or she was considered to have a new observation. Multilevel models were employed to evaluate the association of HRQL with medication and other clinical and sociodemographic variables for each epoch. A total of 9340 patients were analyzed (42.1% women; mean age 40 years).Mean EQ-5D scores increased over time; the largest improvement occurred in the first 6 months (mean increase of 0.19). Longer duration of illness and older age at first treatment were associated with worse baseline EQ-5D scores. Improvements in EQ-5D scores were greater for more socially active patients or those in paid employment. Few significant differences were found between antipsychotic medications. Olanzapine and clozapine were associated with higher HRQL increases.Continuous antipsychotic treatment is associated with important HRQL benefits at 3 years, most of which occurs during the first 6 months. Although some medications are associated with better HRQL outcomes, differences are small.To evaluate the association between patient-reported hypoglycemic symptoms with ratings of their health-related quality of life state and patient-reported adverse events in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).This observational, multicenter, cross sectional study was based on a sample of patients with T2DM from seven European countries who added sulfonylurea or thiazolidinedione to metformin monotherapy between January 2001 and January 2006. Included patients were required to have at least one hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) measurement in the 12 months before enrollment and to not be receiving insulin. Demographic and clinical data from medical records were collected using case report forms. Questionnaires measured patient-reported hypoglycemic symptoms, health-related quality of life (EuroQol visual analogue scale, EQ-5D VAS), and treatment-related adverse events.A total of 1,709 patients were included in the study. Mean patient age was 63 years, 45% were female, mean HbA1c was 7.06%, and 28% were at HbA1c goal (HbA1c < 6.5%). Hypoglycemic symptoms during the 12 months before enrollment were reported by 38% of patients; among whom 68% reported their most severe symptoms were mild, 27% moderate, and 5% severe. Adjusted linear regression analyses revealed that patients reporting hypoglycemic symptoms had significantly lower EQ-5D VAS scores indicating worse patient-reported quality of life (mean difference -4.33, p < 0.0001). Relative to those not reporting symptoms, the adjusted decrement to quality of life increased with greater hypoglycemic symptom severity (mild: -2.68, p = 0.0039; moderate: -6.42, p < 0.0001; severe: -16.09, p < 0.0001). Patients with hypoglycemia reported significantly higher rates of shakiness, sweating, excessive fatigue, drowsiness, inability to concentrate, dizziness, hunger, asthenia, and headache (p < 0.0001 for each comparison).Hypoglycemic symptoms and symptom severity have an adverse effect on patients' rating of their health related quality of life state. Hypoglycemic symptoms are correlated with treatment-related adverse effects. Minimizing the risk and severity of hypoglycemia may improve patients' quality of life and clinical outcomes. Results are subject to limitations associated with observational studies including the potential biases due to unobserved patient heterogeneity and the use of a convenience sample of patients.Previous studies comparing laparoscopic and open surgical techniques have reported improved health-related quality of life (HRQL). This analysis compared HRQL 12 months after laparoscopic versus open surgery for rectal cancer in a subset of a randomized trial.The setting was a multicentre randomized trial (COLOR II) comparing laparoscopic and open surgery for rectal cancer. Involvement in the HRQL study of COLOR II was optional. Patients completed the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR38, and EuroQol - 5D (EQ-5D™) before surgery, and 4 weeks, 6, 12 and 24 months after operation. Analysis was done according to the manual for each instrument.Of 617 patients in hospitals participating in the HRQL study of COLOR II, 385 were included. The HRQL deteriorated to moderate/severe degrees after surgery, gradually returning to preoperative values over time. Changes in EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR38, and EQ-5D™ were not significantly different between the groups regarding global health score or any of the dimensions or symptoms at 4 weeks, 6 or 12 months after surgery.In contrast to previous studies in patients with colonic cancer, HRQL after rectal cancer surgery was not affected by surgical approach.NCT00297791 (http://www.clinicaltrials.gov).Reports from non-Asian populations indicate that painful physical symptoms (PPS) are associated with poorer clinical and functional outcomes in major depressive disorder (MDD). The purpose of this study is to report comparative changes in disease severity, treatment patterns and quality of life observed in East Asian patients with MDD, with and without PPS, as assessed prospectively over a 3-month observation period.This observational study enrolled 909 patients with MDD in psychiatric care settings in China, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan. Patients were classified as PPS positive (PPS+) or negative (PPS-) based on mean modified Somatic Symptom Inventory scores of >or= 2 or < 2 respectively. The Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) and 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD(17)) determined depression severity; a visual analogue scale (VAS) determined pain severity; and the EuroQoL (EQ-5D) assessed well-being after 3 months observation.Of the 909 enrollees, 355/471 (75.4%) of PPS+ patients and 363/438 (82.9%) of PPS- patients completed the study (p = 0.006). PPS+ patients improved less than PPS- patients on depression, pain and quality of life measures during the study (HAMD(17) p < 0.001, CGI-S p < 0.001, VAS p = 0.008 and EQ-5D p = 0.004). Fewer PPS+ patients (46.5%) achieved remission compared with PPS- patients (69.4%, p < 0.001).As the presence of PPS is associated with poorer outcomes in East Asian MDD patients, clinical management should aim to address both the mental and PPS associated with MDD.Acute pain is a hallmark of sickle cell disease (SCD) for which frequent hospital admissions may be required, affecting the quality of life of patients.To characterise the relationship between adult patient self-reported sickle cell pain, mood and quality of life during and after hospital admissions.Longitudinal study across three time-points.Secondary care, single specialist sickle cell centre.510 adult patients with SCD admitted to hospital daycare or inpatient units.Self-assessments of pain, mood and health-related quality of life with health utility (measured on the EQ-5D) on admission, before discharge and at 1-week postdischarge.Mood, general health and quality of life showed significant steady improvements with reduction of pain in patients with SCD on admission to hospital, before discharge and at 1-week follow-up (p<0.01). Health utility scores derived from the EQ-5D showed a negative association with pain in regression analysis over the three time-points.Examining health-related quality of life and health utility in relation to pain during hospital admissions is valuable in terms of targeting appropriate psychological interventions within the context of a multidisciplinary approach to managing sickle cell pain. This has implications for healthcare costs.To investigate the relative magnitude and duration of impact of AIDS-defining events (ADEs) and non-AIDS serious adverse events (SAEs) on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) among patients with advanced HIV/AIDS.We use data from OPTIMA (OPTions In Management with Antiretrovirals), a multinational, randomized, open, control, clinical management trial of treatment strategies for patients with multidrug-resistant HIV and advanced immune disease. Longitudinal models were used to determine the effects of ADEs and SAEs on HRQoL across periods before, during, and after event onset. The Medical Outcomes Study HIV Health Survey (MOS-HIV) physical and mental health summary scores (MOS-PHS and MOS-MHS), EQ-5D, and the Health Utilities Index Mark 3 HRQoL measures were all assessed at regular follow-up intervals during the trial.ADEs occurred much less frequently than SAEs (n = 147 vs. n = 821) in the study sample population of 368 patients, during median follow-up of 3.96 years. Although both ADEs and SAEs had significant negative impacts on HRQoL, SAEs had at least as large an impact upon HRQoL as ADEs when both were included in a multivariate linear regression model, controlling for other covariates. However, the effect of ADEs on HRQoL was more persistent, with larger magnitude of effect across all instruments in time intervals further from the onset of the event.Non-AIDS SAEs occurring in patients with late-stage HIV/AIDS seem to have at least as important an immediate impact on patient HRQoL as ADEs; however, the impact of ADEs seems to be more persistent. Our findings call for a greater emphasis on the detection and active prevention of non-AIDS SAEs in patients with late-stage HIV/AIDS.There is currently no consensus on the most appropriate method to estimate health state utility values (HSUVs) for comorbid health conditions.The objective of the study was to assess the accuracy by applying 5 different methods to an EQ-5D dataset.EQ-5D data (n=41,174) from the Health Survey for England were used to compare HSUVs generated using the additive, multiplicative and minimum methods, the adjusted decrement estimator, and a linear regression.The additive and multiplicative methods underestimated the majority of HSUVs and the magnitude of the errors increased as the actual HSUV increased. Conversely, the minimum and adjusted decrement estimator methods overestimated the majority of HSUVs and the magnitude of errors increased as the actual HSUV decreased. Although the simple linear model produced the most accurate results, there was a tendency to underpredict higher HSUVs and overpredict lower HSUVs. The magnitude and direction of mean errors could be driven by the actual scores being estimated in addition to the technique used and the HSUVs estimated using an adjusted baseline were generally more accurate.The additive and minimum methods performed very poorly in our data. Although the simple linear model gave the most accurate results, the model requires validating in external data obtained from the EQ-5D and other preference-based measures. Based on the current evidence base, we would recommend the multiplicative method is used together with a range of univariate sensitivity analyses.Decision analytic models in health care require baseline health-related quality of life data to accurately assess the benefits of interventions. The use of inappropriate baselines such as assuming the value of perfect health (EQ-5D = 1) for not having a condition may overestimate the benefits of some treatment and thus distort policy decisions informed by cost per quality adjusted life years thresholds.The primary objective was to determine if data from the general population are appropriate for baseline health state utility values (HSUVs) when condition specific data are not available.Data from four consecutive Health Surveys for England were pooled. Self-reported health status and EQ-5D data were extracted and used to generate mean HSUVs for cohorts with or without prevalent health conditions. These were compared with mean HSUVs from all respondents irrespective of health status.More than 45% of respondents (n = 41,174) reported at least one condition and almost 20% reported at least two. Our results suggest that data from the general population could be used to approximate baseline HSUVs in some analyses, but not all. In particular, HSUVs from the general population would not be an appropriate baseline for cohorts who have just one condition. In these instances, if condition specific data are not available, data from respondents who report they do not have any prevalent health condition may be more appropriate. Exploratory analyses suggest the decrement on health-related quality of life may not be constant across ages for all conditions and these relationships may be condition specific. Additional research is required to validate our findings.Our aim was to assess the perceived emotional burden and quality of life (QOL) in a sample of Greek primary caregivers of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS).Twenty-two male and 13 female primary caregivers (mean age 47.3 ± 12.4 years), and an equal number of patients with MS, completed the Greek validated version of the hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS) and the Greek validated version of EuroQOL (EQ-5D). Thirty-five age-, gender-, and education-matched healthy controls were used for comparison.Caregivers experienced higher degree of anxiety than depression. The mean score of the HADS-A subscale was 9.5 ± 4 (range 3-15), and the mean score of the HADS-D subscale was 7.1 ± 3.1 (range 2-14). The mean scores of caregivers on both HADS-A and HADS-D were significantly higher than the controls' (P < 0.0001). Twenty-two caregivers were diagnosed with manifesting anxiety, whereas 12 of them also presented depression. Highly educated caregivers were more prone to manifest increased levels of anxiety and depression. The increased psychological distress was further supported by the responses in the anxiety/depression dimension on the EQ-5D: 27 reported a moderate level of anxiety/depression and three indicated an extreme degree. The caregivers reported a mean EQ-VAS value of 61.9 ± 13.8 (range 40-100), with 10 caregivers rating their health status a score of 50 or lower; the controls scored significantly higher (90.3 ± 7.1; P < 0.0001).The sample of caregivers we studied was psychologically burdened to a significant degree, a fact that obviously deteriorates their QOL. Appropriate psychopharmacological interventions are warranted to reduce caregivers' burden.The first objective of the current observational study was to assess the degree of religiosity in Greek Christian Orthodox primary caregivers of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). The second objective was to evaluate the interrelations between religiosity and quality of life (QOL) and to identify the determinants of QOL, an endpoint of considerable importance in clinical research and practice. Twenty-two male and 13 female primary caregivers (mean age 47.3 ± 12.4 years) of an equal number of patients with MS, who consented to participate, completed the Systems of the Greek version of the Belief Inventory (SBI-15R) and the Greek validated version of EuroQOL (EQ-5D). The analysis revealed high scores on religiosity, especially among females. Caregivers scored in the religious beliefs and practices subscale of SBI-15R with a mean score of 22.8 ± 7.8 (range 0-30) and with 7.1 ± 4.8 (range 0-14) in the social support subscale. However, both of the SBI-15R domains were almost unrelated to the degree of overall QOL. There was only a reliable (but with little clinical value) association between the pain/discomfort domain of the EQ-5D with the SBI-15R beliefs and practices subscale (r = -0.38, p = 0.03). Although high levels of religiosity among Greek Christian Orthodox primary caregivers of MS patients were evident, this study did not demonstrate any beneficial effect of religious beliefs and practices on their QOL. Further prospective studies with a population with the same and/or diverse religious and cultural backgrounds are needed to better elucidate the complex association between religiosity and QOL in primary caregivers of MS patients.Overactive bladder (OAB) is characterized by the symptoms of urinary urgency or urge incontinence, which appear without a local pathological or metabolic explanation. OAB is defined by symptoms and the evaluation of treatment effectiveness should be based upon patient perceptions. The Overactive Bladder Questionnaire-Short Form (OAB-q SF) is a brief, self-administered patient-reported outcomes tool with two scales assessing symptom bother and health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) in patients with OAB.This study aimed to adapt the OAB-q SF into Spanish and to estimate its psychometric properties in patients with symptomatic overactive bladder.The Spanish version of the OAB-q SF was administered on two occasions, 3 months apart, to a set of patients of both sexes, over 18 years of age, diagnosed with OAB, scoring ≥8 on the OAB-V8 scale (a self-reported 8-item OAB screening and awareness tool), and able to understand patient-reported-outcome instruments written in Spanish. Patients were recruited consecutively at urology clinics. Feasibility, internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha), test-retest reliability, structure of instrument, criteria and construct validity and responsiveness were examined using classic test theory statistics.Data from 246 OAB patients (mean age 57.7 years, 76% women, 99% Caucasian, 37% workers and 36% with a primary education) were evaluated. Floor and ceiling effects ranged between 0.8% and 33%, and missing items were below 2%. Cronbach's alphas attained 0.811 and 0.922 for symptom-bother and HR-QOL domains, respectively. These two subscales matched the original structure and explained variances above 50%, which correlated moderately with EQ-5D (EuroQol) [r = -0.28 and r = +0.31, respectively (p < 0.001 in both cases)]. A significant change in OAB-q SF mean domain scores (-23.8; 95% CI -26.3, -21.3; and +17.7; 95% CI 15.4, 20.6; p < 0.001 in both cases; [effect sizes: 1.32 and 0.98]) was observed after 3 months of medical treatment.The Spanish version of the OAB-q SF demonstrated sufficiently strong psychometric properties of reliability, validity and responsiveness to be used in the measurement of OAB symptom severity and HR-QOL.Chronic diseases interfere with the life situation of the affected person in different ways. The aim was to compare the burden of disease in three chronic diseases - chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), diabetes mellitus (DM) - and in healthy subjects, with a particular interest in physical activity, quality of life, and psychological health.Cross-sectional, observational study.Postal survey questionnaire to a stratified, random population of 68 460 subjects aged 18-84 years in Sweden. The subjects included were 40-84 years old (n = 43 589) and data were analysed for COPD (n = 526), RA (n = 1120), DM (n = 2149) and healthy subjects (n = 6960).Some 84% of subjects with COPD, 74% (RA), 72% (DM), and 60% in healthy subjects (p < 0.001, COPD versus RA, DM, and healthy subjects) had a physical activity level considered too low to maintain good health according to guidelines. Quality of life (EuroQol five-dimension questionnaire, EQ-5D) was lower in COPD and RA than in DM. Anxiety/depression was more common in subjects with COPD (53%) than in those with RA (48%) and DM (35%) (p < 0.001, COPD versus RA and DM), whereas mobility problems were more common in RA (55%) than COPD (48%) and DM (36%) (p < 0.001, RA versus COPD and DM). All differences between groups remained significant after adjusting for age, sex, and socioeconomic background factors.Subjects with chronic diseases had a low level of physical activity, most evident in subjects with COPD. COPD and RA had a higher negative impact on quality of life than DM. Our results indicate that increased attention regarding physical inactivity in subjects with chronic diseases is needed to minimize the burden of disease.Ranolazine has been shown to reduce myocardial ischemia and symptom severity among selected patients with chronic angina. However, data regarding the effect of ranolazine on health status/quality of life (QOL) are limited.We performed a prospective QOL analysis alongside the Metabolic Efficiency with Ranolazine for Less Ischemia in Non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes (MERLIN)-TIMI 36 trial, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of ranolazine in 6560 patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes. Health status/QOL was evaluated at baseline and 4, 8, and 12 months after index hospitalization using the Seattle Angina Questionnaire, Rose dyspnea scale, SF-12, and EuroQol-5D. Health status/QOL scores improved significantly at all follow-up time points for both treatment arms. In the overall population, randomization to ranolazine was associated with minimal 12-month improvements in angina frequency and Seattle Angina Questionnaire-QOL (P<0.05). In subsequent exploratory analyses, there was a significant interaction between the benefits of ranolazine and anginal status before the index event. Among patients with prior angina (n=3565), treatment with ranolazine was associated with modest benefits across the full range of QOL domains, with the greatest benefits observed in angina frequency (mean effect=3.4; P<0.001) and Seattle Angina Questionnaire-QOL (mean effect=2.7; P<0.001). There were no significant benefits among patients without prior angina, however.Among a broad population of patients with unstable coronary disease, ranolazine had a minimal effect on disease-specific health status and QOL over approximately 12 months of follow-up. Posthoc subgroup analysis, however, suggested a modest benefit among the subgroup of patients with angina before their acute coronary syndromes event.This study sought to determine the association of chronic stress with long-term adverse outcomes after acute myocardial infarction (AMI).Chronic stress has been shown to be associated with the development of cardiovascular disease and, in the case of particular types of stress such as job and marital strain, with recurrent adverse events after AMI. Little is known, however, about the association of chronic stress with mortality and adverse health status outcomes in a general AMI population.In a cohort of 4,204 AMI patients from 24 U.S. hospitals completing the Perceived Stress Scale-4 (sum scores ranging from 0 to 16) during hospitalization, moderate/high stress over the previous month was defined as scores in the top 2 quintiles (scores of 6 to 16). Detailed data on sociodemographics, psychosocial status, and clinical characteristics were collected at baseline. Outcomes included patients' 1-year health status, assessed with the Seattle Angina Questionnaire, Short Form-12, and EuroQol Visual Analog Scale, and 2-year mortality.AMI patients with moderate/high stress had increased 2-year mortality compared with those having low levels of stress (12.9% vs. 8.6%; p < 0.001). This association persisted after adjusting for sociodemographics, clinical factors (including depressive symptoms), revascularization status, and GRACE (Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events) discharge risk scores (hazard ratio: 1.42: 95% confidence interval: 1.15 to 1.76). Furthermore, moderate/high stress was independently associated with poor 1-year health status, including a greater likelihood of angina, worse disease-specific and generic health status, and worse perceived health (p < 0.01 for all).Moderate/high perceived stress at the time of an AMI is associated with adverse long-term outcomes, even after adjustment for important confounding factors. Future studies need to examine whether stress mediates observed racial and socioeconomic disparities and whether novel interventions targeting chronic stress and coping skills can improve post-AMI outcomes.We sought to develop a mapping function from functional assessment of cancer therapy-melanoma (FACT-M) quality of life scores to the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) utility scores.FACT-M and EQ-5D scores were collected during a prospective study of melanoma-related quality of life at a tertiary cancer care center in the United States. The study sample was divided into development and validation datasets with equal distributions by cancer stage and treatment status. Censored Least Absolute Deviation (CLAD) and Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regression analyses were performed using the developmental dataset to derive mapping functions, and model performance was examined through comparisons of residuals and measures of fit in the validation dataset. Exploratory analyses examined the predictive ability of clinical factors and individual subscales.Of 273 patients, 75 were undergoing treatment with 198 in follow-up surveillance. Relatively even distributions were observed by melanoma stage: I/II (n = 102), III (n = 100), and IV (n = 71). OLS regression resulted in a mapping function of EQ-5D = 0.0037*FACT-M+0.2238 with an R(2) 0.499. CLAD regression resulted in a mapping function of EQ-5D = 0.0042*FACT-M+0.1648 with pseudo R(2) 0.328. When applied to the validation dataset, correlations between observed and predicted values resulted in identical coefficients (r = 0.824, P < 0.001). Though the mapping functions were similar, residuals were smaller at the 20th, 40th, and 60th percentiles using the OLS model. The CLAD derived mapping function resulted in smaller residuals only for patients whose EQ-5D = 1.The OLS mapping function demonstrated better predictive ability and will facilitate the derivation of utilities when direct population preference measures are not available.Between July 2008 and December 2008 102 consecutive patients undergoing CEA under local anaesthesia (LA) were prospectively evaluated. All patients were psychometrically assessed by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), the EuroQol and the Heidelberg peri-anaesthetic questionnaire (HPQ). Furthermore technical issues of cervical plexus block were assessed.Multivariate analysis with an HPQ sum-score of 98 points as a cut-off level for reduced patients' satisfaction demonstrated that HADS-D scores of >9 (OR: 7.228; p = 0.003), insufficient intra-operative pain control (OR: 3.264; p = 0.0322) and complications due to plexus anaesthesia (OR: 3.794; p = 0.0370) were associated with a low patients' satisfaction in carotid surgery under LA.The efficacy of the plexus blockade in terms of pain control and side effects affects patients' satisfaction in carotid surgery under LA. When choosing LA for patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy altered states of anxiety and mood reduce satisfaction in carotid surgery under LA and might compromise patients' suitability for LA.National EQ-5D value sets are developed because preferences for health may vary in different populations. UK values are lower than US values for most of the 243 possible EQ-5D health states. Although similar protocols were used for data collection, analytic choices regarding how to model values from the collected data may also influence national value sets. Participants in the UK and US studies assessed the same subset of 42 EQ-5D health states using the time trade-off (TTO) method. However, different methods were used to transform negative values to a range bounded by 0 and -1, and values for all 243 health states were estimated using two different regression models. The transformation of negative values is inconsistent with expected utility theory, and the choice of which transformation method to use lacks a theoretical foundation.Our objectives were to assess how much of the observed difference between the UK and US EQ-5D value sets may be explained by the choice of transformation method for negative values relative to the choice of regression model and the differences between elicited TTO values in the respective national studies (datasets).We applied both transformation methods and both regression models to each of the two datasets, resulting in eight comparable value sets. We arranged these value sets in pairs in which one source of difference (transformation method, regression model or dataset) was varied. For each of these paired value sets, we calculated the mean difference between the two matching values for each of the 243 health states. Finally, we calculated the mean utility gain for all possible transitions between pairs of EQ-5D health states within each value set and used the difference in transition scores as a measure of impact from changing transformation method, regression model or dataset.The mean absolute difference in values was 1.5 times larger when changing the transformation method than when using different datasets. The choice of transformation method had a 3.2 times larger effect on the mean health gain (transition score) than the choice of dataset. The mean health gain in the UK value set was 0.09 higher than in the US value set. Using the UK transformation method on the US dataset reduced this absolute difference to 0.02. The choice of regression model had little overall impact on the differences between the value sets.Most of the observed differences between the UK and US value sets were caused by the use of different transformation methods for negative values, rather than differences between the two study populations as reflected in the datasets. Changing the regression model had little impact on the differences between the value sets.Many patients with chronic wounds suffer not only directly from their wounds but also from high financial, social and psychological impairments, significantly reducing their quality of life. In order to provide an instrument both applicable to different patient populations and sensitive to areas of impact specific to certain skin diseases, the modular instrument 'Freiburg Life Quality Assessment' has been developed. Each disease-specific version of the instrument consists of a core module of generic items and items specific for a distinct skin disease. Objective of the study was to assess reliability, sensitivity to change, and validity of the module for chronic ulcers. The instrument was implemented in a longitudinal observational study on vacuum-seal therapy (n = 175), in a cross-sectional observational study involving patients with chronic leg ulcers (n = 384) and in a randomised clinical trial on keratinocyte transplantation (n = 198). The instrument showed good internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha ≥0·85). There were minor floor effects ≤4·3%, but no ceiling effects. Retest-reliability and convergent validity with the EuroQol quality of life questionnaire (EQ-5D) (visual analogue scale) were satisfactory. Change scores correlated with change in other quality-of-life instruments (r = 0·59-0·61), but not with change in wound status.To develop a set of health state values based on EuroQol EQ-5D instrument for the Argentine general population.Consecutive subjects attending six primary care centers in Argentina were selected based on quota sampling and were interviewed using the EuroQol Group protocol for measurement and valuation of health studies. Initially, the respondents were randomly assigned a unique card set; however, to improve efficiency, the subjects were later randomly assigned to one of three fixed sets of EQ-5D states. Using the visual analog scale (VAS) and time-trade off (TTO) responses for these states, we estimated a valuation model using ordinary least squares regression clustered by respondent. Predicted values for EQ-5D health states are compared with published values for the United States.Six hundred eleven subjects were interviewed by 14 trained interviewers, rendering 6887 TTO and 6892 VAS responses. The model had an R(2) of 0.897 and 0.928 for TTO and VAS, respectively. The mean absolute difference between observed and predicted values was 0.039 for TTO and 0.020 for VAS, each showing a Lin's concordance coefficient more than 0.98. Argentine and US TTO-predicted values were highly correlated (Pearson's rho = 0.963), although the average absolute difference was clinically meaningful (0.06), rejecting the US values for nearly two-thirds of the states (62.8%). The Argentine population placed lower values on mild states and higher values on severe states.This study provides an Argentine value set that could be used locally or regionally, with meaningful and significant differences with that of the United States. Health policy in Latin America must incorporate local values for sovereignty and validity.To investigate quality of life and its association with depression in patients with major depressive disorder.The study included 74 patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder according to DSM-IV. The Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) was used to assess the severity of depression; and the, Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 (MOS SF-36) and EuroQol 5-D (EQ-5D) were used to measure quality of life.In the assessment of quality of life, it was determined that Patients with major depressive disorder scored significantly lower on all domains of MOS SF-36 compared to Turkish normative data. The depressive disorder patients had lower EQ-5D health utility index scores, in comparison to Turkish normative data. There was a significant negative correlation between mean HAM-D score and all domains of MOS SF-36 and EQ-5D health utility index scores. When quality of life in depressive patients was compared according to episode type, patients with recurrent type major depressive disorder had lower quality of life in terms of physical functioning, general health perception, and physical component summary score than patients with single episode type major depressive disorder.All domains of quality of life were lower in patients with major depressive disorder and quality of life decreased as severity of depression increased. Physical health perception was impaired to a greater degree in patients with recurrent major depressive disorder when compared with single episode depressive patients.Neuroborreliosis affects the nervous system after systemic infection with the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi. Previously, cerebral vasculitis has been regarded as an extremely rare complication of neuroborreliosis. The data on the long-term outcome in patients with cerebral vasculitis due to neuroborreliosis are limited. The objective of this study was to perform a longitudinal analysis of cases of neuroborreliosis-associated cerebral vasculitis. We recruited all patients (n = 11) diagnosed with neuroborreliosis-associated in three neurological departments in an East German region. Inclusion criteria were sudden neurological deficits, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging findings that conform to cerebral ischemia or brain infarction, intrathecal synthesis of borrelia-specific antibodies, and non-atherosclerotic pathology of brain supplying arteries. Vasculitic changes were detected by digital subtraction angiography, MR angiography and/or transcranial Doppler ultrasound. Outcomes were measured by the modified Rankin scale (mRS) and EuroQoL Index. Cerebral vasculitis is a rare complication of Lyme disease (0.3% of all cases in the endemic area). Ten out of 11 patients diagnosed with neuroborreliosis-associated vasculitis cerebral vasculitis using clinical, radiological and immunological criteria developed ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attacks (TIA), 7 patients had recurrent stroke. Vasculitic alterations could be demonstrated in 8 patients that all except one developed ischemic lesions. The median mRS was 3 (range 0-4) at admission and 2 (range 0-6) at discharge. The posterior circulation was affected in 8 of 11 patients; thrombosis of the basilar artery was detected in 2 patients, one died in the acute stage. Neuroborreliosis can cause recurrent stroke or TIA on the basis of cerebral vasculitis. Lumbar puncture is needed for detection of this potentially life-threatening condition. Early recognition and adequate therapy would possibly improve outcome.Economic evaluation of stroke services indicates that such services may lead to improved quality of life at affordable cost. The present study assesses lifetime health impact and cost consequences of stroke in an integrated service setting.The EDISSE study is a prospective non-randomized controlled cluster trial that compared stroke services (n = 151 patients) to usual care (n = 187 patients). Health status and cost trial-data were entered in multi-dimensional stroke life-tables. The tables distinguish four levels of disability which are defined by the modified Rankin scale. Quality-of-life scores (EuroQoL-5D), transition and survival probabilities are based on concurrent Dutch follow-up studies. Outcomes are quality-adjusted life years lived and lifetime medical cost by disability category. An economic analysis compares outcomes from a successful stroke service to usual care, by bootstrapping individual costs and effects data from patients in each arm.Lifetime costs and QALYs after stroke depend on age-of-onset of first-ever stroke. Lifetime QALYs after stroke are 2.42 (90% CI - 0.49 - 2.75) for male patients in usual care and 2.75 (-0.61; 6.26) for females. Lifetime costs for men in the usual care setting are €39,335 (15,951; 79,837) and €42,944 (14,081; 95,944) for women. A comparison with the stroke service results in an ICER of €11,685 saved per QALY gained (€14,211 and €7,745 for men and women respectively). This stroke service is with 90% certainty cost-effective.Our analysis shows the potential of large health benefits and cost savings of stroke services, taking a lifetime perspective, also in other European settings.Despite the growing importance of the EQ-5D descriptive system as a basis for the valuation of QALYs in cost-utility analysis, for most countries, there are no EQ-5D value sets. Researchers and policy makers wishing to use the EQ-5D descriptive system in a country for which there is no value set are advised to use one from a nearby or 'similar' population. Factors other than geographic proximity can affect the relative values of EQ-5D states.This study explores the links between national culture and EQ-5D value sets.Rank correlation analysis is used to explore relationships between the relative values of a set of EQ-5D states and dimensions of national culture. The latter are taken from Hofstede's framework which operationalizes national culture in five dimensions.For the data currently available (countries for which EQ-5D value sets and scores on dimensions of culture both exist), moderate and strong correlations were found between the culture dimension of power distance and individualism and the EQ-5D dimensions of pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Moderate correlations were also observed between the cultural dimension of masculinity and the EQ-5D dimensions of self care, usual activities and pain/discomfort. Uncertainty avoidance correlates with the EQ-5D dimension of anxiety/depression.The correlation patterns observed are generally consistent with a priori expectations based on the nature of the dimensions of culture and the EQ-5D model. This analysis demonstrates the potential of national culture in providing insight into the drivers of the relative values of EQ-5D dimensions for different countries and in informing decisions about which EQ-5D value sets to use in situations where one does not exist.In the United Kingdom, organizations involved in health-care commissioning have recently introduced legislation limiting access to total knee arthroplasty through the introduction of arbitrary thresholds unsupported by the literature and based on body mass index. This study aimed to establish the relationship between body mass index and patient-reported specific and general outcomes on total knee arthroplasty.Using national patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) linked to the National Joint Registry, we identified 13,673 primary total knee arthroplasties performed for the treatment of osteoarthritis. The PROMs project involves the collection of condition-specific and general health outcomes before and at six months following total knee arthroplasty. The relationships between body mass index and the Oxford Knee Score, EuroQol 5D index, and EuroQol 5D Visual Analogue Scale were assessed with use of scatterplots and linear regression. The improvement in these measures was compared for three distinct groups based on body mass index (Group I [15 to 24.9 kg/m(2)], Group II [25 to 39.9 kg/m(2)], and Group III [40 to 60 kg/m(2)]) with use of multiple regression analysis to adjust for differences in age, sex, American Society of Anesthesiologists grade, general health rating, and number of comorbidities.The preoperative and postoperative patient-reported outcome measures declined to a similar extent with increasing body mass index. The gradient of the linear regression equation relating to the change in scores was positive in all cases, indicating that there was a tendency for scores to improve to a greater extent as body mass index increased. After adjustment, the changes in patient-reported outcome measures in Group I and Group III were equivalent for the Oxford Knee Score (mean difference, 0.5 point [95% confidence interval, -0.5 to 1.5 points]; p = 0.78), the EuroQol 5D index (mean difference, 0.014 point [95% confidence interval, -0.021 to 0.048 point]; p = 1.00), and the EuroQol 5D Visual Analogue Scale (mean difference, 1.9 points [95% confidence interval, -0.4 to 4.1 points]; p = 0.13). Wound complications were significantly higher (p < 0.001) at a rate of 17% (168 of 1018 patients) in Group III compared with 9% (121 of 1292 patients) in Group I.The improvements in patient-reported outcome measures experienced by patients were similar, irrespective of body mass index. Health policy should be based on the overall improvements in function and general health gained through surgery. Obese patients should not be excluded from the benefit of total knee arthroplasty, given that their overall improvements were equivalent to those of patients with a lower body mass index.We compared the medium-term clinical and radiological results of hybrid total hip replacement (THR) with metal-on-metal Birmingham hip resurfacing (BHR) in two groups of 54 young patients matched for age, gender, body mass index and pre-operative levels of activity. The clinical outcome was assessed by the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) activity score, the Oxford Hip Score (OHS) and the EuroQol scores. Radiologically, all hips were assessed for migration and osteolysis, the hybrid THRs for polyethylene wear and the BHRs for a pedestal sign. The mean follow-up of the patients with a hybrid THR was ten years and for those with a BHR, nine years. Four patients with a hybrid THR and one with a BHR had died. In each group five were lost to follow-up. The revision rate of the hybrid THRs was 16.7% (9 of 54) and of the BHRs 9.3% (5 of 54) (p = 0.195). Radiographs of a further eight hybrid THRs demonstrated wear and osteolysis, and they await revision (p = 0.008). Of the unrevised BHRs 90% had radiological changes, of which approximately 50% had progressed over the previous four years. All hybrid THRs demonstrated linear polyethylene wear with a mean of 1.24 mm (0.06 to 3.03). The BHRs recorded superior OHS (p = 0.013), UCLA (p = 0.008), and EuroQol visual analogue scores (p = 0.009). After nine years, patients with BHRs remained more active and had a lower rate of revision than those with hybrid THRs. Both groups demonstrated progressive radiological changes at medium-term follow-up.Peripheral arterial disease may occur in about of 14% of patients with high blood pressure, of which 1-3% suffer from chronic critical limb ischemia. Literature data on the quality of life according to the Fontaine stages are very limited.The aim of this study was to assess the quality of life of Hungarian patients with peripheral arterial disease regarding Fontaine stages II, III and IV.The study was based on a cross-sectional survey, which was carried out in four angiologic centres. One hundred and two respondents with peripheral arterial disease (43% woman) were evaluated. The average age of the patients was 70 years (SD-10).Based on the EQ-5D index, the results of the quality of life assessment with respect to Fontaine stages II, III and IV were 0.66, 0.35 and 0.18, respectively. In each stage the EQ-5D values were lower than the values of the age-matched average population. The results of the Pain Visual Analogue Scale (0-100 mm) were 38, 65 and 71 mm in Fontaine stages II, III and IV, respectively, and this showed a strong correlation with the EQ-5D (R = -0.68). In stage Fontaine IV the quality of life of the patients was significantly lower among those who had pain at rest and ALSO ulcer on the leg.Peripheral disease with clinical symptoms causes significant reduction in quality of life which can be measured with EQ-5D. It becomes worse as we move along the Fontaine stages. While measuring the health gain in stage Fontaine IV, the health gain from the reduction of pain in rest and partial recovery from ulcer should be taken into account.Quality of life is a concept that is receiving increasing amounts of attention; its assessment complements the traditional clinical evaluation, which is of special interest in areas related with healthcare organisation. Here, we present a study on quality of life in Alzheimer's disease and its relationship with cognitive and functional measures.Quality of life was evaluated by means of the EQ-5D scale in a sample of cases of Alzheimer's disease (diagnosed according to criteria established by the National Institute of Neurologic, Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association) that donated blood samples for the National DNA Bank. The status of the global deterioration scale was determined and a verbal fluency test and the Folstein minimental test were also carried out. A classic analysis, variable contrast by means of chi-square for proportions and Student's t test for measurements were conducted, as well as estimation of r for the regression models in the quantitative variables. The social rate was determined using the software application SPSS v. 11.Altogether 141 cases were analysed, with a male to female ratio of 2:1, and a mean age of 76.2 years. Aspects such as personal hygiene, activity and, to a lesser extent, motility are affected in Alzheimer's disease, but pain and anxiety aspects do not seem to be affected. There is a relationship between quality of life, functional scales and cognitive scales. Functional aspects correlate with quality of life better than cognitive ones.Quality of life is evaluated in Alzheimer's disease using general scales, such as EQ-5D. Cognitive aspects do not appear to provide relevant information about quality of life that is not already provided by the functional aspects.To determine whether response shift (a change in the self-perceived meaning of health-related quality of life [HRQL]) was present in a model of physical function over time poststroke.Secondary data analysis of a longitudinal observational study.Community.A consecutive sample of stroke survivors (N=677) at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months poststroke was included. Sixty-seven individuals were approached, but refused. Sixty-seven percent completed the study at 12 months. Mean age was 68 years; 45% of the participants were women.Not applicable.The Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey, Euroqol, Stroke Impact Scale, Preference-Based Stroke Index, and the Health Utilities Index.Structural equation modeling was used to identify response shift. A chi-square difference test between constrained and unconstrained longitudinal models suggested the presence of response shift in the data. Reprioritization response shift, a change in relative importance of domains, was observed for physical activites. Recalibration response shift, a change in internal standards of measurement, was observed in physical activities, stairs, walking, and hand function.Response shift has implications for the measurement of change in physical function. Measures that focus on difficulty in task performance may be sensitive to response shift, resulting in a change in perceived HRQL over time. This has implications for choosing self-perceived or performance-based measures to detect change in physical function.The aim of this study was to investigate the use of large diameter head THR to treat fractured neck of femur, and to demonstrate if this conferred greater stability. Forty-six independent, mentally alert patients with displaced intracapsular fractures underwent THR. Mean age was 72.1 years. Outcome measures were dislocation, reoperation/revision rate, Oxford hip score (OHS), EuroQol (EQ-5D) and residential status. At mean follow-up (13.5 months) there were no dislocations. Reoperation, revision and infection rate were all 0%. Two patients died (4.3%). Mean pre-injury and postoperative OHS were 12.1 and 17.6, respectively. Mean pre-injury and postoperative EQ-5D index scores were 0.97 and 0.83, respectively. Mean postoperative walking distance was 2.5miles. There were no changes in residential status. This is the first published series using 36-mm diameter metal-on-metal THR for the treatment of fractured neck of femur. We have demonstrated that it affords patients excellent stability with no recorded dislocations.To compare efficacy and safety of 5% lidocaine medicated plaster with pregabalin in patients with post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN) or painful diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN).This was a two-stage adaptive, randomized, open-label, multicentre, non-inferiority study. Data are reported from the initial 4-week comparative phase, in which adults with PHN or painful DPN received either topical 5% lidocaine medicated plaster applied to the most painful skin area or twice-daily pregabalin capsules titrated to effect according to the Summary of Product Characteristics. The primary endpoint was response rate at 4 weeks, defined as reduction averaged over the last three days from baseline of > or = 2 points or an absolute value of < or = 4 points on the 11-point Numerical Rating Scale (NRS-3). Secondary endpoints included 30% and 50% reductions in NRS-3 scores; change in allodynia severity rating; quality of life (QoL) parameters EQ-5D, CGIC, and PGIC; patient satisfaction with treatment; and evaluation of safety (laboratory parameters, vital signs, physical examinations, adverse events [AEs], drug-related AEs [DRAEs], and withdrawal due to AEs).Ninety-six patients with PHN and 204 with painful DPN were analysed (full analysis set, FAS). Overall, 66.4% of patients treated with the 5% lidocaine medicated plaster and 61.5% receiving pregabalin were considered responders (corresponding numbers for the per protocol set, PPS: 65.3% vs. 62.0%). In PHN more patients responded to 5% lidocaine medicated plaster treatment than to pregabalin (PPS: 62.2% vs. 46.5%), while response was comparable for patients with painful DPN (PPS: 66.7% vs 69.1%). 30% and 50% reductions in NRS-3 scores were greater with 5% lidocaine medicated plaster than with pregabalin. Both treatments reduced allodynia severity. 5% lidocaine medicated plaster showed greater improvements in QoL based on EQ-5D in both PHN and DPN. PGIC and CGIC scores indicated greater improvement for 5% lidocaine medicated plaster treated patients with PHN. Improvements were comparable between treatments in painful DPN. Fewer patients administering 5% lidocaine medicated plaster experienced AEs (safety set, SAF: 18.7% vs. 46.4%), DRAEs (5.8% vs. 41.2%) and related discontinuations compared to patients taking pregabalin.5% lidocaine medicated plaster showed better efficacy compared with pregabalin in patients with PHN. Within DPN, efficacy was comparable for both treatments. 5% lidocaine medicated plaster showed a favourable efficacy/safety profile with greater improvements in patient satisfaction and QoL compared with pregabalin for both indications, supporting its first line position in the treatment of localized neuropathic pain.In patients with bipolar disorder, medication is effective in preventing relapses. Unfortunately, adherence to treatment in bipolar disorder, as in other chronic or recurrent conditions, is not optimal. Estimates of nonadherence to prescribed treatment range from 30% to 60% in epidemiological studies, and are at around 30% in clinical trials. Adherence to treatment is a potent predictor of effectiveness, both in clinical trials and cohort studies, therefore is a very relevant area of investigation. This study will try to show a picture of the real life care where adherence is influenced by a wide range of variables.Prospective, observational, multicenter study in 650 adult patients with bipolar disorder, who had to initiate or change their treatment regimen, observed for 1 year. Adherence was measured by the Simplified Medication Adherence Questionnaire (SMAQ). Additional variables: Symptom severity, Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Clinical Global Impression-Bipolar Disorder (CGI-BD), the Drug Attitude Inventory score (DAI-30), and quality of life (EuroQoL 5 Dimensions). The variables were recorded every 3 months for the next year.Most subjects were out-patients (77.1%), female (58.8%), aged 31-50 years (50.1%) and overweight (41.8%) or obese (28.7%); 67.4% had type I bipolar disorder and 66.8% had depressive or mixed symptoms. Adherence was 39.9% at baseline (and increased up to 67.0% at completion. The main predictors of nonadherence were alcohol consumption, severe bipolar symptoms, young age at time of first treatment, negative attitude towards treatment.The patient population of this observational trial was representative of the patients changing their therapy for bipolar disorder seen in clinical practice in Italy. Lack of adherence to pharmacotherapy for bipolar disorder is a serious issue, which is more likely to arise in alcohol users and patients with severe symptoms, negative attitude towards medication and/or initiation of treatment early in life. The findings could lead to a more adequate approach of adherence in patients with bipolar disorders.A 3-month follow-up, observational, prospective, multicenter, study in traumatic spinal cord-injured (SCI) patients with neuropathic pain (NP).To assess the effectiveness and safety of oxycodone treatment in SCI patients with anticonvulsants-refractory NP.'Spinal injury follow-up units' throughout Spain.Data regarding NP characteristics were collated from male and female adults with traumatic SCI and difficult-to-control central NP of moderate-to-severe intensity (visual analog scale (VAS) ≥4) persisting ≥1 month, who had been para- or tetraplegic for ≥2 months, had been previously treated with anticonvulsants and were now treated with oxycodone.In all, 54 out of the 57 patients recruited were assessable. A total of 81% were men and the mean age was 46.4. Patients were treated with oxycodone, 83% combined with anticonvulsant. Pain intensity (VAS: 7.1 ± 1.3-4.3 ± 1.7) and Lattinen total score (13.2 ± 3-7.7 ± 3.4) decreased significantly (P < 0.001) along the study. No patient got worse regarding pain impact on physical activity and on sleep (Lattinen scale). EQ-5D VAS showed a trend to increase (P = 0.061) and the index of preference values increased significantly from baseline to month 3 (0.26-0.62; P < 0.001). A total of 53.7% patients showed at least one treatment-related adverse event, with constipation being the most frequent one (33.3%).Oxycodone treatment, mostly in combination with anticonvulsants, in SCI patients with NP decreases pain intensity, improves health-related quality of life and diminishes the impact of pain on physical activity and sleep.No previous studies have compared the effectiveness of different modalities of psychotherapeutic treatment, as defined by different settings and durations, for patients with cluster C personality disorders. The aim of this multicentre study was to compare the effectiveness of 5 treatment modalities for patients with cluster C personality disorders in terms of psychiatric symptoms, psychosocial functioning, and quality of life. The following treatment modalities were compared: long-term outpatient (more than 6 months), short-term day hospital (up to 6 months), long-term day hospital, short-term inpatient, and long-term inpatient psychotherapy.The study was conducted between March 2003 and June 2008 in 6 mental health care centres in the Netherlands, with a sample of 371 patients with a DSM-IV-TR axis-II cluster C diagnosis. Patients were assigned to 5 different modalities of psychotherapeutic treatment, and effectiveness was assessed at 12 months after baseline. An intention-to-treat analysis was conducted for psychiatric symptoms (Brief Symptom Inventory), psychosocial functioning (Outcome Questionnaire-45), and quality of life (EQ-5D), using multilevel statistical modelling. As the study was non-randomised, the propensity score method was used to control for initial differences.Patients in all treatment groups had improved on all outcomes 12 months after baseline. Patients receiving short-term inpatient treatment showed more improvement than patients receiving other treatment modalities.Psychotherapeutic treatment, especially in the short-term inpatient modality, is an effective treatment for patients with cluster C personality disorders.For patients with cluster B personality disorders there is no consensus regarding the optimal treatment setting. The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of different psychotherapeutic settings for patients with cluster B personality disorders, i.e. outpatient, day hospital, and inpatient treatment.The study was conducted between March 2003 and June 2008 in 6 mental health care centres in the Netherlands, with a sample of 207 patients with a DSM-IV-TR axis II cluster B diagnosis. Patients were assigned to 3 different settings of psychotherapeutic treatment and effectiveness was assessed at 18 months after baseline. An intention-to-treat analysis was conducted for psychiatric symptoms (Brief Symptom Inventory), psychosocial functioning (Outcome Questionnaire-45), and quality of life (EQ-5D), using multilevel statistical modelling. As the study was non-randomised, the propensity score method was used to control for initial differences.Patients in all 3 settings improved significantly in terms of psychiatric symptoms, social and interpersonal functioning, and quality of life 18 months after baseline. The inpatient group showed the largest improvements. The comparison of outpatient and inpatient treatment regarding psychiatric symptoms showed a marginally significant result (p = 0.057) in favour of inpatient treatment.Patients with cluster B personality disorders improved in all investigated treatment settings, with a trend towards larger improvements of psychiatric symptoms in the inpatient setting compared to the outpatient setting. Specialised inpatient treatment should be considered as a valuable treatment option for cluster B personality disorders, both in research and in clinical practice.While psychopharmacological studies are common in patients with cluster A personality disorders, the effects of psychotherapy have received little attention. The aim of this study is to explore whether psychotherapeutic treatment yields health gains for these patients.The study was conducted between March 2003 and June 2008 in 6 mental health care centres in the Netherlands, with a sample of 57 patients with a DSM-IV-TR axis II cluster A diagnosis. Patients were assigned to 3 settings of psychotherapeutic treatment (outpatient, day hospital, inpatient), and effectiveness was assessed at 18 months after baseline. An intention-to-treat analysis was conducted for psychiatric symptoms (Brief Symptom Inventory), psychosocial functioning (Outcome Questionnaire-45) and quality of life (EQ-5D), using multilevel statistical modelling. As the study was non-randomised, the propensity score method was used to control for initial differences.Patients in the day hospital and inpatient group improved substantially in terms of psychiatric symptoms, social and interpersonal functioning, and quality of life. Patients in the outpatient group showed less improvement. Direct comparison of the improvement of psychiatric symptoms showed significant results in favour of day hospital (p = 0.046) and inpatient (p = 0.01) treatment, as compared to outpatient treatment. However, due to substantial baseline differences, this direct comparison should be judged carefully.Cluster A psychopathology is not a contraindication to benefit from psychotherapy. This is especially true for more intensive forms like inpatient and day hospital treatment. Future research should focus more on psychotherapeutic treatment to gain further insight into effective treatment options for this patient group.Fractures of the distal radius represent the most common fracture in elderly patients, and often indicate the onset of symptomatic osteoporosis. A variety of treatment options is available, including closed reduction and plaster casting, K-wire-stabilization, external fixation and open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) with volar locked plating. The latter is widely promoted by clinicians and hardware manufacturers. Closed reduction and cast stabilization for six weeks is a simple, convenient, and ubiquitously available intervention. In contrast, ORIF requires hospitalization, but allows for functional rehabilitation.Given the lack of randomized controlled trials, it remains unclear whether ORIF leads to better functional outcomes one year after injury than closed reduction and casting.ORCHID (Open reduction and internal fixation versus casting for highly comminuted intra-articular fractures of the distal radius) is a pragmatic, randomized, multi-center, clinical trial with two parallel treatment arms. It is planned to include 504 patients in 15 participating centers throughout Germany over a three-year period. Patients are allocated by a central web-based randomization tool.The primary objective is to determine differences in the Short Form 36 (SF-36) Physical Component Score (PCS) between volar locked plating and closed reduction and casting of intraarticular, comminuted distal radius fractures in patients > 65 years of age one year after the fracture. Secondary outcomes include differences in other SF-36 dimensions, the EuroQol-5D questionnaire, the Disability of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) instrument. Also, the range of motion in the affected wrist, activities of daily living, complications (including secondary ORIF and revision surgery), as well as serious adverse events will be assessed. Data obtained during the trial will be used for later health-economic evaluations. The trial architecture involves a central statistical unit, an independent monitoring institute, and a data safety monitoring board. Following approval by the institutional review boards of all participating centers, conduct and reporting will strictly adhere to national and international rules, regulations, and recommendations (e.g., Good Clinical Practice, data safety laws, and EQUATOR/CONSORT proposals).To our knowledge, ORCHID is the first multicenter RCT designed to assess quality of life and functional outcomes following operative treatment compared to conservative treatment of complex, intra-articular fractures of the distal radius in elderly patients. The results are expected to influence future treatment recommendations and policies on an international level.ISRCTN: ISRCTN76120052 Registration date: 31.07.2008; Randomization of first patient: 15.09.2008.The aim of this study was to analyse the burden on caregivers of chronic neurological patients taking part in community neurorehabilitation programmes, and to describe caregivers' socio-demographic features and needs.A total of 118 pairs of chronic neurological patients and their caregivers.Caregivers completed the Caregiver Burden Inventory, the Beck Depression Inventory, and an ad hoc socio-demographic questionnaire. The EuroQol-5D was used to measure patients' quality of life. Patients' cognitive status and functional independence status were assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination and Barthel Index, respectively.Data from 105 patient-caregiver pairs were analysed. The majority of caregivers (mean age 63.01 ± 12.3 years) were women (58%); 72% were spouses/partners. The burden of care was distributed across the 5 domains of the Caregiver Burden Inventory as follows: objective burden (34%), developmental burden (25%), physical burden (22%), social burden (10%), emotional burden (9%). Care burden correlated negatively with patient's functional independence (p = 0.008) and quality of life (p = 0.000) and positively with caregiver depression (p = 0.000). Of the caregivers, 65.7% requested interventions aimed at reducing their burden.There is a need to define structured interventions for assessing, preventing or managing problems related to stressful caregiving situations across the care continuum.To assess the practicality, validity and responsiveness of using each of two utility measures (the EQ-5D and SF-6D) to measure the benefits of alleviating knee pain.Participants in a randomised controlled trial, which was designed to compare four different interventions for people with self-reported knee pain, were asked to complete the EQ-5D, SF-6D, and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) at both pre- and post-intervention. For both utility measures, we assessed their practicality (completion rate), construct validity (ability to discriminate between baseline WOMAC severity levels), and responsiveness (ability to discriminate between three groups: those whose total WOMAC score, i) did not improve, ii) improved by <20%, and iii) improved by > or = 20%).The EQ-5D was completed by 97.7% of the 389 participants, compared to 93.3% for the SF-6D. Both the EQ-5D and SF-6D were able to discriminate between participants with different levels of WOMAC severity (p < 0.001). The mean EQ-5D change was -0.036 for group i), 0.091 for group ii), and 0.127 for group iii), compared to 0.021, 0.023 and 0.053 on the SF-6D. These change scores were significantly different according to the EQ-5D (p < 0.001), but not the SF-6D.The EQ-5D and SF-6D had largely comparable practicality and construct validity. However, in contrast to the EQ-5D, the SF-6D could not discriminate between those who improved post-intervention, and those who did not. This suggests that it is more appropriate to use the EQ-5D in future cost-effectiveness analyses of interventions which are designed to alleviate knee pain.The UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) has recommended that cost-effectiveness analysis includes the EQ-5D; however, this is often not implemented in the area of mental health.To assess the appropriateness of using the EQ-5D to measure improvements in mental health.Seventy-seven participants with psychosis were rated according to the EQ-5D and seven measures of mental health at both pre- and post-intervention. To assess construct validity we compared the (pre-intervention) mean EQ-5D scores for those with milder and more severe scores, according to each of the seven measures. To assess responsiveness we estimated the mean EQ-5D change score for those who improved (post-intervention), according to each of the measures.The mean EQ-5D score was more favourable for both those with milder scores (mean difference: 0.044 to 0.301) and for those who improved post-intervention (mean change: 0.029 to 0.117).This suggests the EQ-5D should be considered for use in future cost-effectiveness studies in the area of mental health.Breathlessness remains a refractory symptom in malignant lung disease. Breathing training is an effective, non-pharmacological intervention but it is unclear how this should be delivered. This feasibility study aimed to assess recruitment and retention, best end point and variability of breathlessness scores in order to calculate sample size for a future study.This was a single centre, randomised controlled non-blinded parallel group feasibility study. Eligible participants (breathless patients with intrathoracic malignancy) received three breathlessness management training sessions or a single session only. Follow-up was for eight weeks and endpoints were: numerical rating scales (NRS) of breathlessness severity; breathlessness distress; HADS questionnaire; coping (BriefCOPE and our NRS coping question); EQ-5D and EQ-VAS.22 patients were randomised over 12 months; 55% of expected recruitment from pilot data. Screening logs indicated this resulted, in part, from excluding patients who were receiving or who had recently received chemotherapy or radiotherapy. There was 40% drop-out by week four. The most useful NRS scores for breathlessness severity were for "worst" and "average" over past 24h. From the variability data for "worst breathlessness", a sample size of 270 should allow detection of a 30% improvement in area under the curve in the three-session group compared with single-session, (90% power; p=0.05, two-tailed; 2:1 randomisation single:three sessions) allowing 50% drop out at four weeks.The follow-on study will test the hypothesis that three sessions of training improve breathlessness better than a single session. It will include patients undergoing palliative anti-cancer therapy. Stratification by centre will allow for differences in rates of chemotherapy or radiotherapy and variations in breathlessness service configuration.Controversy exists with regard to whether to treat AO/OTA 31-A2 fractures of the proximal part of the femur with an intramedullary device or an extramedullary device. A prospective, randomized, controlled trial was performed to compare the outcome of treatment of these unstable fractures of the proximal part of the femur with either a sliding hip screw or a long gamma nail.Two hundred and ten patients presenting with an AO/OTA 31-A2 fracture of the proximal part of the femur were randomized, at the time of admission, to fixation with use of either a long gamma nail or a sliding hip screw. The primary outcome measure was reoperation within the first postoperative year. Secondary measures included mortality, length of hospital stay, transfusion rate, change in mobility and residence, and quality of life as measured with the EuroQol 5D outcome score.There was no significant difference between the reoperation rates for the two groups. In total, five patients (three from the long-gamma-nail group and two from the sliding-hip-screw group) underwent revision surgery because of cut-out. Tip-apex distance was found to correlate with the implant cut-out rate. There was no significant difference between the two groups in terms of the EuroQol 5D outcome scores, the mortality rates after correction for the mini-mental score, or any of the secondary outcome measures.When compared with the long gamma nail, the sliding hip screw should remain the gold standard for the treatment of AO/OTA 31-A2 fractures of the proximal part of the femur because it is associated with similar outcomes with less expense.In cancer treatment trials, the standard source of adverse symptom data is clinician reporting by use of items from the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). Patient self-reporting has been proposed as an additional data source, but the implications of such a shift are not understood.Patients with lung cancer receiving chemotherapy and their clinicians independently reported six CTCAE symptoms and Karnofsky Performance Status longitudinally at sequential office visits. To compare how patient's vs clinician's reports relate to sentinel clinical events, a time-dependent Cox regression model was used to measure associations between reaching particular CTCAE grade severity thresholds with the risk of death and emergency room visits. To measure concordance of CTCAE reports with indices of daily health status, Kendall tau rank correlation coefficients were calculated for each symptom with EuroQoL EQ-5D questionnaire and global question scores. Statistical tests were two-sided.A total of 163 patients were enrolled for an average of 12 months (range = 1-28 months), with a mean of 11 visits and 67 (41%) deaths. CTCAE reports were submitted by clinicians at 95% of visits and by patients at 80% of visits. Patients generally reported symptoms earlier and more frequently than clinicians. Statistically significant associations with death and emergency room admissions were seen for clinician reports of fatigue (P < .001), nausea (P = .01), constipation (P = .038), and Karnofsky Performance Status (P < .001) but not for patient reports of these items. Higher concordance with EuroQoL EQ-5D questionnaire and global question scores was observed for patient-reported symptoms than for clinician-reported symptoms.Longitudinally collected clinician CTCAE assessments better predict unfavorable clinical events, whereas patient reports better reflect daily health status. These perspectives are complementary, each providing clinically meaningful information. Inclusion of both types of data in treatment trial results and drug labels appears to be warranted.Ankle sprains often result in ankle instability, which is most likely caused by damage to passive structures and neuromuscular impairment. Whole body vibration (WBV) is a neuromuscular training method improving those impaired neurologic parameters. The aim of this study is to compare the current gold standard functional treatment to functional treatment plus WBV in patients with acute unilateral unstable inversion ankle sprains.60 patients, aged 18-40 years, presenting with an isolated, unilateral, acute unstable inversion ankle sprain will be included in this bicentric, biphasic, randomized controlled trial. Samples will be randomized by envelope drawing. All patients will be allowed early mobilization and pain-dependent weight bearing, limited functional immobilization by orthosis, PRICE, NSARDs as well as home and supervised physiotherapy. Supervised physical therapy will take place twice a week, for 30 minutes for a period of 6 weeks, following a standardized intervention protocol. During supervised physical therapy, the intervention group will perform exercises similar to those of the control group, on a side-alternating sinusoidal vibration platform. Two time-dependent primary outcome parameters will be assessed: short-term outcome after six weeks will be postural control quantified by the sway index; mid-term outcome after one year will be assessed by subjective instability, defined by the presence of giving-way attacks. Secondary outcome parameters include: return to pre-injury level of activities, residual pain, recurrence, objective instability, energy/coordination, Foot and Ankle Disability Index and EQ 5D.This is the first trial investigating the effects of WBV in patients with acute soft tissue injury. Inversion ankle sprains often result in ankle instability, which is most likely due to damage of neurological structures. Due to its unique, frequency dependent, influence on various neuromuscular parameters, WBV is a promising treatment method for patients with acute unstable inversion ankle sprains.NCT01702597.To evaluate the cost effectiveness of duloxetine when considered as an alternative treatment for patients in the United States (US) being treated for fibromyalgia pain.A Markov model was used to evaluate the economic and clinical advantages of duloxetine in controlling fibromyalgia pain symptoms over a 2-year time horizon. A base-case treatment sequence was adopted from clinical guidelines, based on tricyclic antidepressants, serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, anticonvulsants, and opioids. Treatment response was modeled using changes from baseline in pain severity, and response thresholds: full response (at least a 50% change), response (30-49% change), and no response (less than a 30% change). Clinical efficacy and discontinuation data were taken from placebo- and active-controlled trials identified in a systematic literature review and mixed-treatment comparison. Utility data were based on EQ-5D data.Additional symptom-control months (SCMs), defined as the amount of time at a response level of 30% or less, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over a 2-year time horizon.For every 1000 patients, first-line duloxetine resulted in an additional 665 SCMs and 12.3 QALYs, at a cost of $582,911 (equivalent to incremental cost-effectiveness ratios [ICERs] of $877 per SCM and $47,560 per QALY). Second-line duloxetine resulted in an additional 460 SCMs and 8.7 QALYs, at a cost of $143,752 (equivalent to ICERs of $312 per SMC and $16,565 per QALY).Response data for TCAs are limited to 30% improvement levels, reported trials are small, and have low placebo response rates. The model necessarily assumes that response rates are independent of placement in the treatment sequence.The results suggest that the introduction of duloxetine into the standard treatment sequence for fibromyalgia not only provides additional patient benefits, reflected by time spent in pain control, but also is cost effective when compared with commonly adopted thresholds.To examine the clinical safety and effectiveness of insulin aspart (IAsp) therapy in type 2 diabetes (T2D) patients from the ASEAN cohort of the international, 24-week, non-interventional A₁chieve study.T2D patients from Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines and Singapore, who started IAsp therapy with or without oral glucose-lowering drugs, were included. The primary endpoint was the incidence of serious adverse drug reactions (SADRs), including major hypoglycaemic events. Secondary endpoints included hypoglycaemia, glycated haemoglobin A1c [HbA1c], fasting plasma glucose [FPG], postprandial plasma glucose [PPPG], systolic blood pressure [SBP], body weight and lipids. Quality of life (QoL) was assessed using the EQ-5D questionnaire.Overall, 312 T2D patients (222 insulin-naive and 90 insulin-experienced) with a mean ± SD age of 56.6 ± 11.2 years, BMI of 24.2 ± 3.9 kg/m(2) and diabetes duration of 7.0 ± 5.7 years were included. The mean daily IAsp dose was 0.51 ± 0.31 U/kg at baseline titrated up to 0.60 ± 0.29 U/kg at Week 24. No SADRs or major hypoglycaemic events were reported in the entire subgroup. The proportion of patients who reported overall hypoglycaemia decreased from baseline to Week 24 (7.1% vs. 0.3%, p < 0.0001). The mean HbA1c improved from 9.5 ± 1.6% at baseline to 7.6 ± 1.3% after 24 weeks (p < 0.001). The mean FPG, post-breakfast PPPG and SBP also improved (p < 0.001). Health-related QoL scores increased in the entire subgroup (mean increase: 9.8 ± 14.6 points, p < 0.001).Starting IAsp therapy was well-tolerated and was associated with significantly improved overall glycaemic control in the ASEAN cohort.To validate the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) for the treatment of focal cartilage lesions.A total of 40 patients (mean age 35+/-12 years), treated for a focal cartilage lesion in the knee were included in this study. Test-retest data were collected with an intermediate period of 2 days. Patients were asked to complete the Dutch KOOS and complementary questionnaires [short form-36 (SF-36), Lysholm, EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D)] to evaluate the clinimetric properties of the KOOS in terms of internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha), reliability [intra-class-correlation (ICC) and Bland and Altman plots], construct validity (Spearman's rank correlation), floor and ceiling effects and responsiveness.The Cronbach's alpha of the KOOS subdomains and total score ranged from 0.74 to 0.96. The overall ICC of the KOOS was 0.97 while the subscales ranged from 0.87 to 0.95. The Bland and Altman plots showed a small individual variance between the two assessments in time. Spearman's rank correlations between the subscales of the KOOS and representative subscales of the SF-36, Lysholm and EQ-5D were high to moderate ranging from 0.43 to 0.70. We observed no floor effect while the largest observed ceiling effect was 10.3%. The responsiveness was moderate to large with the effect size ranging from 0.70 to 1.32 and the standardized response mean 0.61 to 0.87.This study illustrates the validity and reliability of the KOOS in measuring the clinical condition of patients after treatment of focal cartilage lesions. This study provides a basis for the use of the KOOS for future clinical research in cartilage repair.To evaluate the effect of a Scheduled Telephone Intervention (STI) compared with usual care (UC) on function, health/emotional status, community/work activities, and well-being at 1 and 2 years after traumatic brain injury (TBI).Two group, randomized controlled trial.Telephone contacts with subjects recruited in inpatient rehabilitation.Eligible subjects (N=433) with TBI (age>16y) were randomly assigned to STI plus UC (n=210) or UC (n=223) at discharge. STI subjects (n=169) completed the outcome at year 1 (118 at year 2) and 174 UC subjects at year 1 (123 at year 2).STI subjects received calls at 2 and 4 weeks and 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, 12, 15, 18, and 21 months consisting of brief training in problem solving, education, or referral.A composite outcome at 1 year was the primary endpoint. Analysis on intent-to-treat basis used linear regression adjusted for site, Glasgow Coma Scale, race/ethnicity, age, FIM, sex, and Disability Rating Scale (DRS). Secondary analyses were conducted on individual and composite measures (FIM, DRS, community participation indicators, Glasgow Outcome Scale [Extended], Short Form-12 Health Survey, Brief Symptom Inventory-18, EuroQOL, and modified Perceived Quality of Life).No significant differences were noted between the groups at years 1 or 2 for primary (P=.987 regression for year 1, P=.983 for year 2) or secondary analyses.This study failed to replicate the findings of a previous single center study of telephone-based counseling. While telephone mediated treatment has shown promise in other studies, this model of flexible counseling in problem solving and education for varied problems was not effective over and above usual care.Aim of the study--to assess efficacy and safety of one of angiotensin II receptor blockers in patients with metabolic syndrome (MS) and I-V stage chronic kidney disease. We studied cardiodynamic and renal effects of losartan in average daily dose 50 +/- 13.06 mg in 20 patients (9 men and 11 women aged 32-79 years) with MS and I-V stage chronic kidney disease. Cardiodynamic effects of losartan were assessed by office blood pressure (BP) measurements, 24-hour BP monitoring (24-HBPM), echocardiography. Laboratory investigations included biochemical analysis of the blood with measurement of creatinine levels, lipid blood composition, fasting glucose, and glucose under conditions of oral glucose tolerance test. Renal function was assessed by glomerular filtration rate and microalbuminuria (MAU). Parameters of quality of life were analyzed with the use of questionnaires "Quality of life of patients with hypertensive disease" and EuroQol EQ-5D VAS thermometer. Duration of follow up was 12 weeks. 24-HBPM revealed significant lowering of systolic and diastolic BP in all temporal intervals, significant decrease of elevated diurnal systolic and diastolic BP burden, tendency to lowering of variability and normalization of 24-hour BP profile. We also noted tendency to lowering of MAU from 5.60 mg/dl (median) (3.50; 9.20 [25th and 75th percentile]) to 3.25 mg/dl (0.40; 7.83); significant lowering of levels of triglycerides and glucose under conditions of glucose tolerance test; improvement of parameters characterizing quality of life namely reduction of integral assessment by the "Quality of life of patients with hypertensive disease" questionnaire and improvement of EQ-5D VAS (thermometer) score related to arterial hypertension. We conclude that losartan in patients with MS and early signs of impairment of kidney function in addition to antihypertensive action exerts favorable effect on parameters of 24-hour BP profile, has good safety profile, causes favorable metabolic effects, lowers level of MAU and improves parameters of quality of life.The impact of apathy on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in recently diagnosed Parkinson's disease (PD) has not been systematically investigated. The objective of this cross-sectional survey (ANIMO study) was to examine the contribution of apathy to HRQOL in a Spanish sample of recently diagnosed PD patients. PD patients, diagnosed within 2 years of inclusion, were recruited at 102 outpatient clinics in 82 communities throughout Spain. Apathy was quantified using the Lille Apathy Rating Scale and HRQOL with the EuroQol-5D questionnaire. A mean EuroQol-5D index score of 0.89 obtained from population references in Spain was used as the cutoff for this study. The relationship between apathy and the dichotomized EuroQol-5D index score (<0.89 [lower HRQOL] vs ≥0.89 [reference]) was examined using multiple logistic regression analysis, adjusting for sociodemographic and clinical variables. We consecutively recruited 557 patients (60.3% men) with a mean age of 68.8 ± 9.7 years. Apathy was diagnosed in 291 (52.2%) and was related to problems in each of the EuroQoL dimensions. Apathetic PD patients showed EuroQol-5D index scores significantly lower than those without apathy (0.64 vs 0.83). In an adjusted model, apathetic PD patients were 2.49 times more likely to have lower HRQOL than nonapathetic patients (odds ratio, 2.49; 95% confidence interval, 1.49-4.15, P < 0.01). Apathy is very common in those with recently diagnosed PD and is one of the major clinical determinants of HRQOL in this disease. It should be one of the primary concerns among clinicians who provide treatment to individuals affected by PD.Panitumumab in combination with chemotherapy was evaluated in two pivotal clinical trials in first- and second-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), respectively. This analysis compared the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of patients with or without panitumumab in the two trials.Patients with mCRC were randomised to FOLFOX (first-line trial) or FOLFIRI (second-line trial)±panitumumab. The EuroQoL 5-Dimensions Health State Index (EQ-5D HSI) and Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-5D VAS) were assessed at baseline and monthly follow-up until disease progression. Patients with wild-type KRAS mCRC with baseline and post-baseline HRQoL scores were included. Difference in change from baseline between treatment groups was evaluated using linear mixed and pattern-mixture models.In the first-line trial, 576 patients with wild-type KRAS mCRC (284 panitumumab+FOLFOX4 and 292 FOLFOX4 alone) were included in the HRQoL analyses. In the second-line trial, 530 patients with wild-type KRAS mCRC were included in these analyses (263 panitumumab+FOLFIRI and 267 FOLFIRI alone). There was no significant difference in the change in EQ-5D HSI and VAS scores between treatment groups in either trial.The addition of panitumumab to FOLFOX4 or FOLFIRI in first- or second-line treatment of wild-type KRAS mCRC significantly improved progression-free survival without compromising HRQoL.To assess how health-related quality of life (HRQoL) varies by body mass index (BMI) category among gender and racial subgroups using nine HRQoL measures.Among 3,710 US adults, we evaluated self-reported height, weight, and HRQoL that was measured by six indexes (EQ-5D; HUI2; HUI3; SF-6D; QWB-SA; HALex) and three summary measures (theta; PCS; MCS). Mean HRQoL was estimated by weighted regression for normal, overweight, and obese subgroups (BMI: 18.5-24.9 kg/m(2); 25-29.9; and 30-50).HRQoL was significantly lower (P < 0.0001) with increasing BMI category except for MCS. Obese individuals were 5.3 units lower on PCS (1-100 scale) and 0.05-0.11 lower on the HRQoL indexes (0-1 scale) than those with normal weight. MCS scores were significantly lower for obese than normal-weight among women (P = 0.04) but not men (P = 0.11). Overweight blacks had higher HRQoL than blacks in other BMI categories (P = 0.033).Six commonly used HRQoL indexes and two of three health status summary measures indicated lower HRQoL with obesity and overweight than with normal BMI, but the degree of decrement varied by index. The association appeared driven primarily by physical health, although mental health also played a role among women. Counter to hypotheses, blacks may have highest HRQoL when overweight.The objectives of this article were to systematically review, summarize the results of, and assess the quality of economic evaluations and humanistic studies related to patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD).EMBASE, EBM Reviews, MEDLINE, and HealthSTAR databases were searched (from the time of inception through April 2008). Full-text publications describing full economic evaluations (cost-benefit, cost-minimization, cost-effectiveness, and cost-utility analyses), partial economic evaluations (cost, burden-of-illness, and resource-utilization analyses), and humanistic outcomes (utilities, preferences, and willingness-to-pay analyses) were included. GAD diagnoses per official publications (eg, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders) and associated comorbid conditions were included; anxiety-related symptoms without a diagnosis of GAD were excluded. Study quality was assessed with a 38-point checklist of criteria previously developed by the Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine.Thirty-six articles were included. Full economic evaluations (n = 5) were based on conventional decision-making modeling or population-summary data, using time horizons < or =12 months. Cognitive-behavioral therapy by a public-salaried psychologist and evidence-based care generated savings compared with current care. Pharmacotherapy with extended-release venlafaxine treatment was cost-effective compared with diazepam; escitalopram was cost-effective compared with paroxetine because of productivity gains. Full economic evaluations addressed 55.3% to 68.4% of the 38 items on the quality-assessment checklist. Partial evaluations were reported; GAD incurred larger mean marginal health care costs compared with other anxiety disorders (a difference of US $2138 in year-1999 values). GAD patients with severe pain interference incurred significantly higher costs than did patients with pain but no GAD. Furthermore, GAD patients used more services from a primary care provider or specialist than did patients with other psychiatric disorders. Comorbidities were associated with greater absenteeism than was having a diagnosis of GAD alone. Mean (SE) utility scores for quality-of-life assessments among patients with GAD (15D, 0.783 [0.019]; EuroQoL EQ-5D, 0.589 [0.038]) were similar to those for patients who were 20 years older and reported somatic conditions such as Parkinson's disease or heart failure.Current evidence suggests that GAD is associated with substantial economic and humanistic impact on patients and health care systems. Future research should address economic evaluations from the private-payer perspective, studies related to the cost of underdiagnosed or untreated GAD, and full economic evaluations that incorporate longer clinical courses of the disorder.Although atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality from heart failure, stroke and other thromboembolic complications, there are limited data on its health-related quality of life (HRQoL) effects. The objective was to analyse the factors determining utility in patients with all types of AF, both at baseline and after 1 year from inclusion, based on data from the Euro heart survey.HRQoL was measured with the EQ-5D questionnaire. At baseline, 5,050 patients had completed all five dimensions of the EQ-5D and 3,045 had done so after 1 year. We used Powell's censored least absolute deviations estimator for inference and ordinary least squares regressions for prediction.Regardless of time point, utility and change in utility were significantly correlated with age, gender, AF type and symptoms. At baseline, utility was also determined by domestic status, regular exercise habits, diabetic disease and comorbidities. At follow-up, additional determinants included underlying heart disease and utility at baseline, and adverse events.Utility in patients with AF and change over time are influenced by demographic and disease-specific variables. Our results can provide useful information on the effect of AF on QoL and input for economic evaluations.Sex life and sexual function may be affected by low back pain (LBP). Sexual dysfunction after anterior lumbar fusion is reported in both men and women, but focus is mainly on impaired male biological function (retrograde ejaculation) as this may cause infertility. This has led to concern as to whether anterior surgery should be employed in men, at least in younger age groups.To investigate how chronic low back pain (CLBP) of assumed discogenic origin affects sex life and sexual function in patients considered for surgical treatment, whether this is affected by surgical treatment (total disc replacement [TDR] or posterolateral fusion [PLF]/posterior lumbar interbody fusion [PLIF]), and if so, are there differences between the surgical procedures undertaken.A randomized controlled trial comparing TDR and instrumented lumbar spine fusion, performed either as a PLF or PLIF.One hundred fifty-two patients were included in this randomized controlled trial to compare the effect on CLBP of either TDR via an anterior retroperitoneal approach or instrumented posterior lumbar fusion, PLF or PLIF.Global assessment of back pain, back pain (visual analog scale [VAS] 0-100), function (Oswestry Disability Index [ODI] 0-100), quality of life (EQ5D [EuroQol] 0-1), and answers on specific sexual function.Outcome was assessed using data from the Swedish Spine Register (SweSpine). In ODI, one question, ODI 8, reflects the impact of back pain on sex life. This question was analyzed separately. Patients also answered a gender-specific questionnaire preoperatively and at the 2-year follow-up to determine any sexual dysfunction regarding erection, orgasm, and ejaculation. Follow-up was at 1 and 2 years.Before surgery, 34% reported that their sex life caused some extra LBP, and an additional 30% that their sex life was severely restricted by LBP. After surgery, sex life improved in both groups, with a strong correlation to a reduction of LBP. The gender-specific questionnaire used to measure sexual function after 2 years revealed no negative effect of TDR or Fusion in men regarding erection or retrograde ejaculation. However, 26% of all men in the Fusion group, compared with 3% in the TDR group, reported postoperative deterioration in the ability to achieve orgasm, despite a reduction of LBP.Impairment of sex life appears to be related to CLBP. An improvement in sex life after TDR or lumbar fusion was positively correlated to a reduction in LBP. Total disc replacement in this study, performed through an anterior retroperitoneal approach, was not associated with greater sexual dysfunction compared with instrumented lumbar fusion performed either as a PLF or as a PLIF. Sexual function, expressed as orgasm, deteriorated in men in the Fusion group postoperatively, in spite of this group reporting less LBP after 2 years.The study design includes a prospective, randomised controlled study comparing total disc replacement (TDR) with posterior fusion. The main objective of this study is to compare TDR with lumbar spinal fusion, in terms of clinical outcome, in patients referred to a spine clinic for surgical evaluation. Fusion is effective for treating chronic low back pain (LBP), but has drawbacks, such as stiffness and possibly adjacent level degradation. Motion-preserving options have emerged, of which TDR is frequently used because of these drawbacks. How the results of TDR compare to fusion, however, is uncertain. One hundred and fifty-two patients with a mean age of 40 years (21-55) were included: 90 were women, and 80 underwent TDR. The patients had not responded to a conservative treatment programme and suffered from predominantly LBP, with varying degrees of leg pain. Diagnosis was based on clinical examination, radiographs, MRI, and in unclear cases, diagnostic injections. Outcome measures were global assessment (GA), VAS for back and leg pain, Oswestry Disability Index, SF36 and EQ5D at 1 and 2 years. Follow-up rate was 100%, at both 1 and 2 years. All outcome variables improved in both groups between preoperative and follow-up assessment. The primary outcome measure, GA, revealed that 30% in the TDR group and 15% in the fusion group were totally pain-free at 2 years (P = 0.031). TDR patients had reached maximum recovery in virtually all variables at 1 year, with significant differences compared to the fusion group. The fusion patients continued to improve and at 2 years had results similar to TDR patients apart from numbers of pain-free. Complications and reoperations were similar in both groups, but pedicle screw removal as additive surgery, was frequent in the fusion group. One year after surgery, TDR was superior to spinal fusion in clinical outcome, but this difference had diminished by 2 years, apart from (VAS for back pain and) numbers of pain-free. The long-term benefits have yet to be examined.Today, more patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) reach adulthood. There are conflicting findings concerning the relationship between quality of life (QoL) or health state for adults with CHD and the complexity of their CHD. The aim of the study was, firstly, to compare the reported health status and health perception of adult patients with CHD and, secondly, to investigate what variables influenced the patients' health status and health perception.Data from 1435 patients completing the EQ-5D questionnaire, which includes reported health status and health perception, were analyzed.Valid EQ-5D data were reported by 1274 patients, showing overall results indicating a good health status. Problems were most frequently reported in the dimension "pain/discomfort" (31.9%) and "anxiety/depression" (29.8%). Higher occurrence of problems were reported by patients with complex disease i.e. single ventricle (p<0.001) and by female patients (p<0.0001). Symptomatic patients reported a lower health status (p<0.0001) and a lower perceived health on EQ-VAS (p<0.0001). Of the asymptomatic patients, 20.5% nevertheless reported problems in "pain/discomfort" and 22.2% in the "anxiety/depression" dimension.The health status of adults with CHD is influenced by symptoms, NYHA-classification, age and gender. Adults with CHD report a lower occurrence of problems in comparison to previously published results from a general population, but the importance of actively asking about the patient's experience is demonstrated by the high degree of asymptomatic patients reporting problems on EQ-5D.To compare the clinical outcomes of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) patients treated with an implemented new structured pathway (NSP) or according to existing local clinical practices [old clinical pathway (OCP)].GERD is a major challenge at the primary care level.Primary care centers (n=24) were cluster randomized to handle patients suffering from symptoms suggestive of GERD according to the NSP (n=97) or the OCP (n=134). In the NSP, the GerdQ questionnaire score was used both for diagnosis and management including treatment. We used validated questionnaires to evaluate disease symptoms, quality of life, and costs at inclusion and at follow-up 2 to 6 months later.On the basis of the Reflux Disease Questionnaire, 56% of the patients treated with the NSP reported total symptom relief at the follow-up compared with 33% in the OCP group (P=0.0013). The reflux symptoms after treatment affected daily activities to a lesser extent in the patients in the NSP group compared with the OCP group (10% vs. 13%, respectively, P=0.01). The utility score of the EuroQoL-5D questionnaire improved more in the NSP group than in the OCP group (0.05 vs. 0.02, respectively, P<0.001). The patients in the NSP group had an approximately 50% lower average total cost for GERD-related health care resources compared with the OCP group [301 Swedish Kronor (SEK) vs. 588 SEK, respectively, NS].The management of GERD patients in primary care centers using a structured clinical pathway and the results of the GerdQ improves the clinical outcome compared with prevailing local routines (NCT00842387).To assess the overall impact of Behçet's syndrome (BS) on quality of life and the specific impact of the type and number of symptoms on the quality of life of adults with BS.A questionnaire was mailed to the 641 adult members of the Behçet's Syndrome Society in the UK. Participants provided information on socio-demographic characteristics, disease duration, current symptoms (mouth ulcers, genital ulcers, skin lesions, fatigue, joint problems, stomach/bowel problems, eye problems, pathergy reaction, headaches and other neurological problems), symptom control and quality of life (the EQ-5D index). Linear regression was used to test the associations of the type and number of symptoms with the EQ-5D index.Of the 447 members, 400 who returned the questionnaires had a confirmed diagnosis of BS. Of them, 362 had information on the variables selected for this analysis (76% females and 94% white British). The mean EQ-5D index was 0.47 (S.D. 0.38). Of the 10 symptoms assessed, joint problems had the strongest impact on quality of life, followed by neurological problems, pathergy reaction and stomach/bowel problems (adjusted coefficients of -0.15, -0.13, -0.11 and -0.18, respectively). Furthermore, the number of symptoms was significantly related to the EQ-5D index after adjustment for socio-demographic characteristics, disease duration and symptom control. The EQ-5D index decreased by -0.05 U for every additional symptom reported.BS has a considerable impact on quality of life. Both the type and number of symptoms affect the quality of life of adults with BS.The purpose of this study was to analyze and compare different valuation methods for population health status measured by the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) in three European countries.A representative survey of the noninstitutionalized population aged 18 and above was conducted in three European countries (Germany, The Netherlands, and Spain). A total of 11,932 respondents were interviewed using the EQ-5D self-classifier. Health state values based on community preferences (EQ-5D index) were calculated for each country using four different value sets: national value sets based on the time trade-off (TTO) and the visual analogue scale (VAS), the UK TTO-based value set and the European VAS-based value set. Linear regression analysis was conducted to evaluate the factors associated with different EQ-5D index scores depending on the value set used. Loss of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) was calculated for each country using the four value sets by multiplying the age and gender-specific values with the respective population size.In all countries, means of all EQ-5D index scores were higher for men than women, and decreased with age. Index scores calculated using the national value set based on TTO were higher than those calculated using the UK TTO-based value set and, also, slightly higher than those calculated using the European VAS-based value set or the national value set based on the VAS. The mean loss of QALYs estimated for Germany per inhabitant varied between 0.062 (national value set based on TTO) and 0.094 (European VAS-based value set). In The Netherlands, the mean loss of QALYs per inhabitant ranged from 0.090 (national value set based on TTO) to 0.125 (national value set based on VAS). In Spain, the mean loss of QALYs per inhabitant ranged between 0.072 (national value set based on TTO) and 0.085 (European VAS-based value set).In general, the differences among countries and valuations were rather small; nevertheless, some important variations should be taken into account while applying different valuation methods to the EQ-5D descriptive system. The associations between sociodemographic variables and health state scores remained the same across countries regardless of which value sets were used. Using different valuation methods lead to different QALY losses. To overcome this problem in international surveys aimed to compare health state scores or QALYs, it is advisable to use a single valuation method, making these scores comparable.mesh techniques are the preferable methods for repair of small ventral hernias, as a primary suture repair shows high recurrence rates. The aim of this prospective study was to compare the retromuscular sublay technique with the intraperitoneal underlay technique for primary umbilical hernias.from February 2004 to April 2007, all patients treated for umbilical hernias with maximum diameters of 3 cm were prospectively followed. During the first period of 15 months, all patients were treated with retromuscular repair using a large pore mesh (Vypro). After that period, for all patients, mesh repair using an intraperitoneal Ventralex patch was performed. All patients underwent general anesthesia. This analysis included 116 patients, of whom 56 had retromuscular repair (group I; mean age, 54.8 years; mean body mass index, 28.2 kg/m(2)) and 60 had open intraperitoneal repair (group II; mean age, 48.1 years; mean body mass index, 29.4 kg/m(2)). Operating time was evaluated as skin-to-skin time, and drain management was noted for both techniques. Follow-up was ≥ 2 years for all patients, and both early and late complications were registered, including seroma and hematoma formation, wound infection, fistula formation, and recurrence rates. Preoperative and postoperative pain was evaluated using a visual analogue scale (range, 0-10) on the day of the first outpatient visit; on postoperative days 1, 7, and 21; and after 1 year. Quality of life was estimated using the EQ-5D questionnaire 1 year after surgery. All data were analyzed using SPSS version 15 software. Wilcoxon's rank-sum test was used to analyze continuous variables, and repeated-measures analysis of variance was used for visual analogue scale scores. The χ(2) test and Fisher's exact test were used to assess the differences between categorical data. P values < .05 were considered statistically significant.the mean operative times were 79.9 minutes in group I and 33.9 minutes in group II (P < .001). The mean hospital stay was significantly longer in group I (3.8 vs 2.1 days, P < .001). Seromas and superficial wound infections in the early postoperative period were not different between both groups, although seromas occurred more frequent in the retromuscular group. Postoperative visual analogue scale scores were significantly lower with the intraperitoneal technique at all time points (P < .003, repeated-measures analysis of variance). However, 3 patients with the Ventralex patch had to be readmitted for severe pain. The recurrence rate was higher with the intraperitoneal repair (n = 5 [8.3%] vs n = 2 [3.6%]) than for the retromuscular mesh repair, but not statistically significant. Quality of life was comparable in the two groups after 1 year.the open intraperitoneal technique using a Ventralex mesh for umbilical hernias seems a very elegant and quick technique. However, possibly because of the less controllable mesh deployment, recurrence rates seem higher. In case open mesh repair is the preferred treatment, a retromuscular repair should be the first choice.Neuropathic pain (NeP) is prevalent in patients with peripheral neuropathy (PN), regardless of etiology. We sought to compare the efficacy of the cannabinoid nabilone as either monotherapy or adjuvant therapy with a first-line medication for NeP, gabapentin, in a patient population with PN-NeP. Patients diagnosed with PN-NeP were permitted to initiate monotherapy (nabilone or gabapentin) or add one of these two medications (adjuvant therapy) to their existing NeP treatment regimen in a non-randomized open-label nature. Baseline data collected included a primary outcome (visual analog scores [VAS] of pain) and secondary outcomes (quality of life [EuroQol 5 Domains and Short-Form 36] assessments and assessments of sleep [Medical Outcomes Sleep Study Scale {MOSSS}], anxiety and depression [Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale], and pain [Brief Pain Inventory]). Reassessment and modulation of dosing and/or medications occurred at 3- and 6-month intervals. Medication adverse effects and drug efficacy, as well as questionnaires, were assessed at 6 months. Matched analysis of variance testing was performed to compare 3- and 6-month scores with baseline, as well as to compare therapies at equal time points. Significant improvements in pain VAS were seen in all treatment groups at 6 months. Numerous sleep parameters within MOSSS, Brief Pain Inventory, and Short-Form 36 improved in patients receiving nabilone or gabapentin either as monotherapy or adjuvant treatment. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-A scores were significantly improved in all treatment groups. Sleep adequacy and the sleep problems index within the MOSSS improved in nabilone monotherapy patients in particular. The benefits of monotherapy or adjuvant therapy with nabilone appear comparable to gabapentin for management of NeP. We advocate for head-to-head randomized, double-blind studies for current therapies for NeP in order to determine potential advantages beneficial in this patient population.While many AIDS patients in sub-Saharan Africa are receiving antiretroviral treatment (ART) via public clinics, improvements in health status also depend on socioeconomic and psychological factors and quality of healthcare services. Inter-dependence between patients' clinical markers and quality of life indicators should be analyzed using comprehensive models. This longitudinal study compiled socioeconomic and clinical variables at six monthly intervals on patients receiving ART in South Africa; patients' ratings of quality of services and staff in "Assessment" and "Treatment" sites were assessed. Dynamic random effects models were estimated by maximum likelihood for CD4 cell counts and for quality of life indices (EQ-5D and Visual Analogue Scale), incorporating the inter-dependence between plasma HIV RNA levels and CD4 cell counts. The results showed that emotional support received by patients was a significant predictor (P<0.05) of CD4 cell counts and quality of life indices. Ratings of services and staff in Assessment and Treatment sites were significantly associated with CD4 cell counts and quality of life indices; CD4 cell count was a significant predictor of quality of life indices. The results indicated that it is important to compile socioeconomic and psychological variables for AIDS patients and monitor healthcare services for improving their health status and quality of life.The aim of the study was to investigate the pattern of association of generic and disease-specific quality of life (QoL) scales with standard clinical outcome variables in Alzheimer's disease (AD).The participants were 321 home-living patients with mild AD and their primary caregivers from the Danish Alzheimer Intervention Study. QoL was assessed using the generic EuroQol-5D with visual analogue scale (VAS) and the disease-specific Quality of Life in Alzheimer's Disease (QOL-AD) scales (both caregiver and patient rated). Depression, activities of daily living, cognitive performance and neuropsychiatric symptom severity were also assessed.All 3 caregiver-rated QoL scales correlated significantly with each other (p < 0.001) and with clinical measures. Patient-rated QoL versions correlated inversely with depression (p < 0.001) but not significantly with any other clinical variables.The caregiver-rated QoL scales showed stronger interscale correlation as well as a similar correlation pattern with standard clinical outcome variables compared to the patient-rated versions. There is some indication that the EQ-5D + VAS could be a suitable alternative to the QOL-AD scale in specific research designs.We aimed to report our postoperative results in elderly patients that had off-pump coronary bypass grafting.Data of 173 patients with isolated coronary bypass 70 years of age or older were retrospectively evaluated. One month follow-up data were evaluated in all patients. After getting verbal informed consent a total of 91 patients were included in the quality of life assessment via EuroQoL form. The data of patients with age of 70-74 and 75 or older were compared.The mean ages of patients at age of 70-74 and ≥75 were 71.69±0.16 and 76.81±0.23 years; respectively. Eleven cases had in-hospital mortality (%6 of 173 patients). The mean follow-up period for the group that were reached for EuroQoL assessment was 46,3 ± 20,8 months. The percent of cases among the whole study group that had participated in the quality of life questionnaire were in good condition in terms of mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression were %75, %87, %81, %92 and %89; respectively.Off-pump coronary bypass operation may be safely used in elderly patients with high quality of life and low morbidity and mortality.Cost effectiveness of a treatment is an important factor in decision making in the United Kingdom. Preceding most interventional health care treatments there is a waiting period between decision and procedure where health care costs may be lessened. Intrathecal drug delivery systems (IDDS) are a recognised pain management therapy for chronic non-malignant pain. To our knowledge, the period of time between being placed on a waiting list for IDDS and the implant (latent period) has not been taken into consideration for cost effectiveness analysis. A retrospective longitudinal analysis of all pain related costs for a period no less than 4 years was undertaken by assessment of medical records of 12 consecutive patients implanted with IDDS for chronic non-malignant pain. The total cost of patient care for 2 years before latent, the latent period itself and 2 years after the implant of an IDDS was computed, according to the National Health Service tariff. An EQ-5D questionnaire was filled by all participants before and after IDDS implant. Total costs were converted to cost per day for comparison with latent period. The average duration of the latent period was 263 ± 176 days (range 3-489). The cost of conventional treatments during the pre-implant phase excluding the latent period was significantly higher (M = £ 5,005.86, SE = £ 918.56) compared with the costs of the same phase including the latent period (M = £ 4,086.35, SE = £ 959.09, t(11) = 2.23, p = 0.05, r = 0.56). The cost per day changed significantly over the different periods (χ(2)(2) = 24.00, p < 0.05). The variability and significantly lower costs of the latent period may influence cost effectiveness evaluations and consequently decision making, if not considered. Further studies analysing the influence of a latent period on the cost effectiveness of other treatments are warranted.Gestational hypertension (GH) and preeclampsia (PE) are major contributors to maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. In GH or PE, labor may be either induced or monitored expectantly. We studied maternal health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) after induction of labor versus expectant monitoring in GH or PE at term. We performed the HR-QoL study alongside a multicenter randomized controlled trial comparing induction of labor to expectant monitoring in women with GH or PE after 36 weeks.We used written questionnaires, covering background characteristics, condition-specific issues, and validated measures: the Short-Form (SF-36), European Quality of Life (EuroQoL 6D3L), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), and Symptom Checklist (SCL-90). Measurements were at the following time points: baseline, 6 weeks postpartum, and 6 months postpartum. A multivariate mixed model with repeated measures was defined to assess the effect of the treatments on the physical component score (PCS) and mental component score (MCS) of the SF-36. Analysis was by intention to treat.We analyzed the data of 491 randomized and 220 nonrandomized women. We did not find treatment effect on long-term HR-QoL (PCS: p = 0.09; MCS: p = 0.82). The PCS improved over time (p < 0.001) and was better in nonrandomized patients (p = 0.02).Despite a clinical benefit of induction of labor, long-term HR-QoL is equal after the induction of labor and expectant management in women with GH or PE beyond 36 weeks of gestation.Pregnancies complicated by intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) beyond 36 weeks of gestation are at increased risk of neonatal morbidity and mortality. Optimal treatment in IUGR at term is highly debated. Results from the multicenter DIGITAT (Disproportionate Intrauterine Growth Intervention Trial At Term) trial show that induction of labor and expectant monitoring result in equal neonatal and maternal outcomes for comparable cesarean section rates. We report the maternal health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) that was measured alongside the trial at several points in time.Both randomized and non-randomized women were asked to participate in the HR-QoL study. Women were asked to fill out written validated questionnaires, covering background characteristics, condition-specific issues and the Short Form (SF-36), European Quality of Life (EuroQoL 6D3L), Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (HADS), and Symptom Check List (SCL-90) at baseline, 6 weeks postpartum and 6 months postpartum. We compared the difference scores of all summary measures between the two management strategies by ANOVA. A repeated measures multivariate mixed model was defined to assess the effect of the management strategies on the physical (PCS) and mental (MCS) components of the SF-36. Analysis was by intention to treat.We analyzed data of 361 randomized and 198 non-randomized patients. There were no clinically relevant differences between the treatments at 6 weeks or 6 months postpartum on any summary measures; e.g., on the SF-36 (PCS: P = .09; MCS: P = .48). The PCS and the MCS were below norm values at inclusion. The PCS improved over time but stayed below norm values at 6 months, while the MCS did not improve.In pregnancies complicated by IUGR beyond 36 weeks, induction of labor does not affect the long-term maternal quality of life.Cranial nerve palsies are regularly observed in patients with arteriovenous fistulas of the cavernous sinus. The purpose of our study was to determine the long-term clinical outcome-with a special focus on extra-ocular muscular dysfunctions-in patients who had undergone endovascular treatment of a cavernous sinus fistula with detachable coils.Sixteen patients were recalled for an ophthalmoneurologic control examination (mean interval of 4.4 years). The mRS and the EQ-5D questionnaire were used for the description of general outcome. Age, duration of symptoms, character of the fistula (direct, dural), and coil volume were tested to assess their relevance for persistent symptoms.All patients displayed complete regression of chemosis, exophthalmus, and pulsating tinnitus with no evidence of recurrences. Oculomotor disturbances persisted in 9 of 13 patients and caused permanent diplopia in 7 patients. In 15 patients a mRS score of 1 or 2 was achieved; however, 7 patients reported some limitations in life quality (EQ-5D). A significant correlation was found between coil volume and persistent diplopia (P = .032) and persistent cranial nerve VI paresis (P = .037).Coil embolization of the cavernous sinus led to durable closure of AVF and reliable regression of acute symptoms. However, long-term follow-up showed a 44% rate of persistent cranial nerve deficits with disturbances of oculomotor and visual functions. This may be explained by the underlying fistula size itself and/or the space-occupying effect of the coils. As neuro-ophthalmologic outcome is crucial for control of therapeutic success, patients should be routinely examined by ophthalmologists.Dural arteriovenous fistula (dAVF) draining into a dural sinus without recruitment of cortical veins is regarded as relatively benign lesion and treatment is advocated only if the patient is severely affected by the symptoms. The aim of this study was to compare the clinical outcomes in patients who received endovascular treatment or no treatment, respectively.Twenty-one patients presented consecutively with pulsating tinnitus as leading symptom and with angiographically proven dAVF at the transverse or sigmoid sinus (Borden I). Nine patients underwent different types of endovascular embolisation, and 12 patients were not treated. After a median follow-up period of 2.3 years, outcome was evaluated by assessing the patients' symptoms and scores on the mRS, EQ-5D, SF-36 and HIT-6 scales.Complete long-term closure of the dAFV was achieved in two out of nine cases; subtotal occlusion was found in seven patients. Pulsating tinnitus persisted less frequently in treated than in untreated patients. Neurologic symptoms occurred in both groups. Neither these findings nor the clinical outcome and scores on the quality-of-life scales varied substantially between the two groups.Partial treatment did not resolve the clinical symptoms of patients with "benign" dural AVF in the follow-up and was not clearly superior to conservative management. These results suggest that embolisation should be offered only if there is a possibility of a complete cure without major periinterventional risks. Further studies should be performed to assess the risk-benefit ratio of pursuing more aggressive treatment strategies in patients with unbearable symptoms.Patients with hepatitis C have been shown to have impaired health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The aim of this study was to determine HRQoL in patients in different stages of hepatitis C virus (HCV) and to compare HRQoL in HCV cirrhosis with non-HCV-induced cirrhosis.Out of 489 consecutive patients who fulfilled the inclusion criteria, 472 (96%) agreed to participate in the study: 158 patients with mild/moderate fibrosis with chronic hepatitis C (CHC group), 76 patients with HCV compensated cirrhosis (CC), 53 patients with HCV decompensated (DC) cirrhosis, 52 non-cirrhotic patients with sustained viral response (SVR), and a control group consisting of 32 patients with non-HCV CC and 101 with non-HCV DC who completed the Short Form-36 (SF-36) and EQ-5D questionnaire.The CHC group had significantly lower SF-36 scores than healthy controls, with the exception of scores for the dimensions physical function and bodily pain. HCV patients with DC had lower scores in all SF-36 dimensions in comparison with those of the CHC group, as well as in physical and mental component summaries (p<0.001). In comparison with the CHC group, the HCV CC group had lower scores on the SF-36 general health dimension (p<0.05) and lower SF-36 physical component summary (PCS) scores (p<0.05). No major differences were seen in patients with HCV- and non-HCV-induced cirrhosis.Impairment in HRQoL in patients with HCV was associated with the severity of liver disease, patients with decompensated cirrhosis exhibiting the highest impairment in HRQoL. The etiology of liver disease does not seem to be important in determining HRQoL in cirrhosis.General information of health-related quality of life pathways to recovery after injury are largely absent from the literature. This article describes a study which: (1) collated and synthesized individual patient data of injured persons from an earlier systematic review and (2) produced general predictions of health-related quality of life for different injury groups for up to 1 year postinjury.A systematic search of literature from January 1990 to December 2008 was completed. Researchers were approached to share their anonymous individual level data. Injuries were grouped into 39 categories based on the Eurocost injury classifications. Multilevel mixed effects models were used to produce predictions across both the five dimensions and the visual analog scale of the EQ-5D measure at 3 days, 30 days, 120 days, and 360 days postinjury.Individual patient data from 10,496 injured persons (76% of known data worldwide) was retrieved. Predictions were fitted to 27 of the 39 injury categories covering a wide spectrum of injury types. Across most injuries, pain, or discomfort, usual activities and mobility were the most commonly impaired dimensions. Recovery for pain or discomfort was generally more gradual than other health dimensions. For many injury categories, a considerable proportion of people reported residual impairment at 360 days. Regardless of the anatomic location of injury, similar patterns of recovery or persistent impairment were seen for fractures and strains/sprains. Recovery patterns differed and took much longer than estimated in the Global Burden of Disease Study.This study has produced recovery patterns for 27 injury groups using most of the worldwide individual-level data. For many injury categories, recovery is incomplete and takes much longer than estimated. This study infers that the burden of injury is likely being underestimated.OBJECTIVE To evaluate the effects of a clinical pharmacist service on health-related quality of life (HRQL) and prescribing of drugs. METHODS A randomised controlled study was performed in two internal medicine wards. The intervention consisted of medication reviews with feedback to the physicians, drug treatment discussion with patients at discharge and medication reports. HRQL was evaluated at inclusion and after six months by self-rated global health (1: very poor; 5: very good) and by the EuroQol 5-dimension questionnaire (EQ-5D). Prescribing of drugs was analysed regarding three established drug-specific quality indicators (intervention and control patients) and potential drug-related problems (DRPs) during in-hospital care (intervention patients). RESULTS 345 patients (61% female; median age: 82) were analysed, 204 of whom (59%) completed the six-month HRQL follow-up. A total of 87 patients (53% of the intervention patients) received all parts of the intervention. Intention-to-treat analysis revealed no significant findings for any of the HRQL measures. Per-protocol analysis revealed significantly better HRQL in the intervention group at six-month follow-up as measured by global health (mean: 3.14 (SD: 0.87) vs 2.77 (0.94), p=0.020), but not as measured by summarised EQ-5D index (0.48 (0.36) vs 0.43 (0.37), p=0.57). The number of potentially inappropriate prescribings per patient according to the quality indicators (admission vs discharge) was 0.35 (0.73) versus 0.38 (0.72), p=0.47 (control patients), and 0.39 (0.83) versus 0.26 (0.56), p=0.039 (intervention patients who received the intervention). In the intervention group, 133 relevant potential DRPs were identified in 81 patients, 55 of which (41%) were acted upon by the attending physician. CONCLUSION A clinical pharmacist service during inpatient care may improve quality of prescribing and patients' HRQL. Trial registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01016301.Changes in the health of patients may affect the health of so-called "significant others" in 2 distinct ways. First, an individual may provide informal care to the patient and be burdened by the process of care giving. We label this indirect effect of a patient's health on the health of the care giver the "care-giving effect." Second, a person may suffer from health losses because someone in his or her social environment is ill, regardless of his or her care-giving status. The health of the patient then directly affects the health of this significant other, which we label the "family effect."We investigate the occurrence of the family and care-giving effect in a convenience sample of Dutch care givers (n = 751). The family effect was approximated by the health status of the patient (measured on EuroQol-VAS), and the care-giving effect by the number of the care-giving tasks was provided. It was assumed that care givers' health is positively associated with patients' health, that is, the family effect, and negatively associated with care-giving burden, that is, the care-giving effect. Relationships are studied using multivariate regressions.Our results support the existence of both types of health effects. The analysis shows that the 2 effects are separable and independently associated with the health of care givers. Not accounting for the family effect conflates the care-giving effect.If the goal of health care policy is to optimize health, all important effects should be captured. The scope of economic evaluations should also include health effects in significant others. This study suggests that significant others include both care givers and broader groups of affected individuals, such as family members.The aim of this study was to elicit the individual willingness to pay (WTP) for a quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).In a Web-based questionnaire containing contingent valuation exercises, respondents valued health changes in five scenarios. In each scenario, the respondents first valued two health states on a visual analog scale (VAS) and expressed their WTP for avoiding a decline in health from the better health state to the worse, using a payment scale followed by a bounded open contingent valuation question.WTP per QALY was calculated for QALY gains calculated using VAS valuations, as well as the Dutch EQ-5D tariffs, the two steps in the WTP estimations and each scenario. Heterogeneity in WTP per QALY ratios was examined from the perspective of: 1) household income; and 2) the level of certainty in WTP indicated by respondents. Theoretical validity was analyzed using clustered multivariate regressions.A total of 1091 respondents, representative of the Dutch population, participated in the survey. Mean WTP per QALY was € 12,900 based on VAS valuations, and € 24,500 based on the Dutch EuroQoL tariffs. WTP per QALY was strongly associated with income, varying from € 5000 in the lowest to € 75,400 in the highest income group. Respondents indicating higher certainty exhibited marginally higher WTP. Regression analyses confirmed expected relations between WTP per QALY, income, and other personal characteristics.  Individual WTP per QALY values elicited in this study are similar to those found in comparable studies. The use of individual valuations in social decision-making deserves attention, however.The paper explores how two well-established, utility-based health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) measures (EQ-5D and 15D) capture the negative effects of various chronic conditions on subjective well-being (SWB). This is important, as both SWB and health utility can be important aims of health policy and instruments in resource allocation.A general population survey representing the Finnish population aged 30 years and over covering 25 self-reported somatic conditions and four psychiatric disorders diagnosed by interviews.Both EQ-5D and 15D fail to capture the effects of some chronic conditions on SWB, but the conditions differ between the instruments. Even after controlling for both EQ-5D and 15D simultaneously, common psychiatric disorders decrease SWB by 0.4 points on a scale 1-10.Using health utility as a basis for resource allocation is likely to underfund the treatment of psychiatric disorders, in comparison to their effect on the SWB of the population. Different HRQoL instruments yield somewhat different results for different conditions.The aim of the study was to assess the impact of stapled transanal rectal resection (STARR) on pre-existing faecal incontinence and quality of life in patients suffering from obstructive defaecation syndrome (ODS) and to evaluate the efficiency of sequential sacral nerve stimulation (SNS) for improvement of persistent incontinence after STARR.Thirty-one patients with ODS and major faecal incontinence prior to STARR were prospectively enrolled. The outcome was measured using the Cleveland Clinic Constipation and Incontinence score (CCS, CCIS), Faecal Incontinence Qualities-of-Life Index (FIQL), Patient Assessment of Constipation Quality-of-Life (PAC-QOL) and EuroQol visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS).The overall levels of constipation (CCS from 13.1 ± 3.8 to 6.2 ± 5.4; P < 0.001) and incontinence (CCIS from 12.6 ± 3.2 to 9.4 ± 5.1; P = 0.005) were significantly improved after STARR; concordantly, the global and specific quality of life were significantly improved. Following postoperative constipation and incontinence, three different groups of patients were differentially referred to SNS. In group I (n = 16, 52%), both constipation (CCS from 12.6 ± 4.0 to 3.6 ± 1.9; P < 0.001) and incontinence (CCSI from 12.43 ± 3.2 to 5.1 ± 1.9; P < 0.001) were improved. In group II (n = 8, 25%), only constipation was improved (CCS from 12.3 ± 2.3 to 3.3 ± 2.2; P < 0.001), while incontinence persisted (CCIS from 12.8 ± 2.9 to 13.1 ± 3.1; P > 0.05). In group III (n = 7, 23%) there was no improvement at all. Sacral nerve stimulation was successfully carried out in six (85%) of seven patients in group II (post-SNS CCSI 6.1 ± 1.7; P = 0.01) but failed in five of five patients in group III.Stapled transanal rectal resection improves quality of life in ODS patients with both severe constipation and faecal incontinence. Sacral nerve stimulation may efficiently improve persisting incontinence after STARR in selected patients.We studied the effect of telephone-linked computer (TLC) communication in patients being treated with home enteral nutrition. A total of 290 patients were enrolled in the study which compared two groups of patients who were recruited at different times (control: 193, TLC: 97). At baseline there were no significant differences in characteristics or clinical practice between the two groups. Over a three-month period, 823 automatic telephone calls were dialled out to the TLC patients and in 787 of the calls (96%) there were complete responses to all questions. A total of 205 alert messages were generated for the 823 calls. Less than 10% were false alerts. All health outcome measures, the EQ-5D and three components of the SF-36 improved slightly with time in both groups, but there was no significant difference between the groups. The patients' body mass index increased slightly in both groups, but the change was not significant. Home enteral nutrition prevented weight loss and improved some components of the QOL scores. The TLC system detected a high number of abnormal nutritional symptoms.In Stalevo tablets, used in the therapy of patients with Parkinson's disease, levodopa is combined with decarboxylase inhibitors and COMT inhibitors to provide a more steady plasma concentration of levodopa. Previously several study has shown, that the better pharmacokinetic profile decreases the fluctuation of motor and non-motor symptoms. Better control of symptoms improves quality of life. Ideal blood levels of levodopa however can only be achieved by multiple daily dosing. This may be uncomfortable, may decrease compliance, thereby influence quality of life. To evaluate this, an observational follow-up study was undertaken in Hungary in 2007, among patients who were given Stalevo - independently of this study - because of signs of decrease in the duration of drug effect (wearing off). Patients got Stalevo in three, four or five daily divided dosages, the results were assesed after three months. The study included 223 patients (ITT population), of whom 208 (PP population) responded regarding quality of life on both visits. Statistical analysis of the results showed that treatment significantly decreased symptoms of wearing off (wearing off card with 19 items) and improved quality of life (EQ-5D and VAS quality of life scale) regardless of the frequency of dosing.There is limited background information on self-rated health in people with disability in Ireland. This paper examines self-rated health scores and dimensions of functioning in people attending disability services and compares scores to the general population in Ireland, which has not been done before.Face-to-face interviews were carried out with 247 adults with intellectual disability and 180 with physical or sensory disability attending regional residential, day activity, or training disability centres in the East Coast Area of Ireland. EuroQol ED-5Q was used to assess five dimensions of functioning and quality of life, supplemented by questions taken from the national population study on general health, mental health, and quality of life.Clients with intellectual disability scored their quality of life significantly higher than the adult general population. They scored their mental health significantly lower compared with clients with physical/sensory disability. Compared to clients with intellectual disability, and to the general population, clients with physical or sensory disability scored their quality of life significantly lower. They had more problems in all EuroQol ED-5Q dimensions (mobility; self-care; being able to carry out one's usual activities; pain; and anxiety) than both the general population and clients with intellectual disability.These results give an insight into self-rated health and quality of life of regional disability services attendees. Findings provide an indicator of health needs and provide a baseline to measure the impact of interventions. Further elucidation of the relationship between functional impairment and quality of life in those with disability is needed. Factors affecting self-rating of health in people with intellectual disabilities need further exploration.Multiple studies have addressed above-the-knee femoral artery bypass grafting; however, information on late quality of life (QoL) and mobility is scarce. We studied long-term QoL and mobility after above-the-knee bypass surgery.Consecutive patients presenting with claudication, ischemic rest pain, or gangrene who received above-the-knee prosthetic bypass grafting between December 1997 and January 2003 were included in this observational study. Data used were recorded in a prospectively collected database of patients receiving Dacron and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) supragenicular bypasses for lower limb ischemia. Primary outcomes were QoL and mobility, and secondary outcomes were patency and patient survival. QoL was measured with the EuroQol questionnaire (EQ-5D/EQ-VAS). Mobility was assessed with the Walking Impairment Questionnaire (WIQ) and analyzed in univariate and multivariate models. Patency and survival were computed with Cox regression.One hundred forty patients were treated during the study period. Sixty-nine patients (50%) died during follow-up, leaving 71 survivors who were asked (63 [89%] complied) to complete the EQ-5D/EQ-VAS and WIQ questionnaires. None of the primary outcome parameters (WIQ, EQ-5D, EQ-VAS) were affected by primary bypass occlusion (p = 0.34, p = 0.44, and p = 0.27, respectively) or long-term patency (p = 0.07, p = 0.54, and p = 0.36, respectively). Male sex was significantly associated with a better outcome on all primary outcome parameters. Patients with Dacron versus PTFE grafts had WIQ scores of 0.49 and 0.26, respectively (p = 0.01). EQ-5D scores of patients with Dacron and PTFE were 0.576 and 0.409 (p = 0.08) and EQ-VAS scores were 61 and 54, respectively (p = 0.24). Graft type was not independently associated with occlusion, but runoff was. The 5-year and 10-year patient survival rates were 58% and 51%, respectively.In this study, long-term QoL and mobility did not seem to be associated with bypass patency, as assessed in a single late follow-up. Revision of bypasses did not contribute to long-term QoL and walking ability. Therefore, the necessity of graft surveillance and subsequent revision and/or thrombectomy in case of synthetic bypass failure in absence of critical limb ischemia seems to be questionable.We aimed to compare quality of life (QoL) after surgical decompression of the thoracic outlet versus non-operative therapy in patients with neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome (N-TOS).We retrospectively identified 46 patients, diagnosed with N-TOS between 1999 and 2008. Twenty-four operated and 22 conservatively treated patients were sent questionnaires on their current symptoms and QoL. A matched control group (n = 24) of healthy individuals was selected for QoL comparison. Statistics were performed with linear and logistic regression analysis.ANOVA revealed a significant QoL difference between the three groups (p = 0.001). Separate analysis between groups demonstrated that all patients with N-TOS-like symptoms have a lower QoL than healthy controls (p = 0.001 resp. p  < or =  0.000). No difference was found between conservatively and surgically treated patients (p = 0.26). EQ-5D response rate was 83%. Of the 24 surgically treated patients, 15 would choose surgery again in a similar situation, although 4 did not benefit in terms of symptom reduction. Symptom relief and VAS pain scores in the conservatively and surgically treated patients did not show significant differences (p = 0.95 resp. p = 0.40).All patients with N-TOS have a significantly decreased QoL compared with healthy individuals, regardless of the type of therapy they received. In this small study, surgical decompression fails to improve QoL in patients with N-TOS to the level measured in the healthy control group, despite symptom reduction consistent with previous reports. Variables significantly associated with outcome were duration of symptoms and localisation (variables included in the prediction model: age, sex, duration of symptoms, presence of paraesthesias, localisation, Adson's, Wright's and Roos' test, history of trauma, cervical arthrosis). In the perspective of QoL, the benefit of decompressive surgery is questionable. Improving patient selection seems imperative in order to achieve better results in our surgically treated patients.Mental health problems are common and are associated with increased disability and health care costs. Problem-Solving Treatment (PST) delivered to these patients by nurses in primary care might be efficient. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of PST by mental health nurses compared with usual care (UC) by the general practitioner for primary care patients with mental health problems.An economic evaluation from a societal perspective was performed alongside a randomized clinical trial. Patients with a positive General Health Questionnaire score (score ≥ 4) and who visited their general practitioner at least three times during the past 6 months were eligible. Outcome measures were improvement on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and QALYs based on the EQ-5D. Resource use was measured using a validated questionnaire. Missing cost and effect data were imputed using multiple imputation techniques. Bootstrapping was used to analyze costs and cost-effectiveness of PST compared with UC.There were no statistically significant differences in clinical outcomes at 9 months. Mean total costs were €4795 in the PST group and €6857 in the UC group. Costs were not statistically significantly different between the two groups (95% CI -4698;359). The cost-effectiveness analysis showed that PST was cost-effective in comparison with UC. Sensitivity analyses confirmed these findings.PST delivered by nurses seems cost-effective in comparison with UC. However, these results should be interpreted with caution, since the difference in total costs was mainly caused by 3 outliers with extremely high indirect costs in the UC group.Nederlands Trial Register ISRCTN51021015.This study was aimed at verifying the improvement on the motor impairment and functionality in 19 patients with chronic hemiparesis after stroke treated with a robot-aided rehabilitation protocol using the ReoGo™ system (Motorika Medical Ltd, Israel), and at evaluating the persistence of the effects after 1 month. The study also focused on the actual possibility of administering the robot-aided therapy with the ReoGo™ for the upper limbs and on the patients' degree of acceptance and compliance with the treatment. Subjects underwent an assessment prior to the start of the rehabilitation project (T-1), one at the start (T0), one at the end of the treatment (T1) and one after one month from the end of the treatment (T2). The following tests were administered: (i) Fugl-Meyer (FM) upper limb; Ashworth scale (AS); Functional Independence Measure (FIM™) (T-1 - T2); (ii) strength evaluation; Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain; Frenchay Arm test (FAT); Box and Block test (BBT); Timed Up and Go (TUG) test (T0 - T2). Additionally, the Euro-QoL questionnaire and a VAS for the treatment satisfaction were administered to the subjects. Non-statistical difference of scores at T-1 and T0 on almost the entire battery of tasks suggested a stable patients' performance prior to the start of the rehabilitation. With the exception of the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the AS sub-scales measuring -as appropriate- strength and spasticity of the shoulder, triceps and wrist, all scores showed a significant increase between T0 and T1. The improvement on the pain could not be proved significant (p = 0.10). A significant increase between T0 and T2 was found for all assessment scores, with the exception of the MRC for external shoulder rotators (p = 0.05) and of the AS for shoulder (p = 0.32) and wrist (p = 0.08). Substantial stability was observed between T1 and T2. Patients were capable of completing the treatment and showed good participant satisfaction. This pilot study led to the finding of a clinical improvement and excellent patients compliance. It is possible that the learning process experienced by the patients was robot-dependent, especially in consideration of the general maintenance of the achievements observed on all activities.Although cost-utility models are frequently used to estimate treatment outcomes for type 2 diabetes, utilities are not available for key attributes of injectable treatments. The purpose of this study was to identify the utility or disutility of three injection-related attributes (dose frequency, dose flexibility, injection site reaction) that may influence patient preference.Patients with type 2 diabetes in Scotland completed standard gamble (SG) interviews to assess the utility of hypothetical health states and their own current health state. The EQ-5D, PGWB, IWQOL-Lite, and QIDS were also administered. Construct validity and differences among health states were examined.A total of 151 patients completed interviews. Of the three injection-related attributes, dose frequency was the only attribute with a statistically significant impact on utility (in a multiple regression model, p = 0.01). Weekly injections were associated with an average added utility of 0.023 in comparison to everyday injections. Flexible dosing and injection site reactions resulted in somewhat smaller utility shifts that were in the expected directions (+0.006 and -0.011, respectively). SG utility of current health (mean = 0.897) demonstrated construct validity through statistically significant correlations with patient-reported outcome measures.The three injection attributes were associated with small utility shifts in the expected directions. Dose frequency appears to be the most important of the three attributes from the patients' perspective. The vignette-based SG approach was feasible and useful for assessing added utility or disutility of injection-related attributes associated with treatments for type 2 diabetes.To determine the cost-effectiveness of self-management techniques for older populations (65 and over) with chronic pain and in the absence of such evidence to investigate this question in an aging adult population (average age 60 and over).Systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with cost-effectiveness data and at least 6 months' follow-up, up to December 2010.No RCT studies reported cost-effectiveness of self-management exclusively in the over 65 age group. Ten RCTs reported participants with an average age of 60 years or over and met all other inclusion criteria. All of these studies measured cost-effectiveness as cost per improvement in primary outcome, 7 of them using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index score, of which 6 reported the pain dimension. Six studies reported cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY)-gained information, with a further 1 reporting EQ-5D. In 7 studies, relative to usual care, self-management was effective, and in the remaining 3 studies, there was no significant difference. Among those reporting cost per QALY-gained results, self-management did not lead to statistically significant QALY gains relative to usual care (with only one exception). Eight studies suggested that the cost of developing and delivering self-management interventions may be partly offset by savings from reduced subsequent health care resource use.Self-management is effective among an aging adult population (mean age over 60) with chronic pain and may be cost-effective when outcomes are measured using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index pain score. Cost-effectiveness is less certain when measured using the QALY metric. Uncertainty over conclusions regarding cost-effectiveness exists partly due to lack of information regarding societal willingness to pay for pain improvement. There is a need for large multicentred high-quality RCTs to confirm the findings of this review exclusively among older aged populations, such as those who have already reached the statutory retirement age.This cross-sectional study aimed to investigate the relationship between quality of life (QoL), physical activity (PA), diet and overweight status in children 11 to 15 years old.Participants (N = 1,771) children with self-reported physical activity and QoL outcome data.Cross-sectional survey of four secondary schools, using the PedsQL and EQ-5D QoL instruments; the CAPANS physical activity instrument and a food intake screener questionnaire.The correlational analysis indicates little or no relationship between self-reported QoL, BMI and moderate to vigorous PA. We found no statistically significant differences between the two groups of children, who achieved the recommended PA guidelines and those who did not, on any of the dimensions of the PedsQL and the EQ-5D utility score. Only on the EQ-5D VAS dimensions score was there a statistically significant difference. Children who self-reported a BMI of overweight to obese had significantly lower QoL on both dimensions of the EQ-5D and every dimension of the PedsQL apart from School functioning.Overall this study showed mixed results for pupils achieving the recommended targets for physical activity and diet and their relationship with QoL. Hence, further study into PA and diet and their effects on QoL is needed.Type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a major cause of disability reaching epidemic proportions worldwide. The disease burden of T2DM is commonly characterised using health status measures, but few European-wide data are available concerning patients' views of their quality of life (QoL) and other patient-reported outcomes (PROs). Despite evidence supporting benefits of glycaemic control, many patients are currently not treated to recommended HbA(1c) targets (<7%). Consequently, the prevalence of T2DM-related chronic complications remains high, impacting negatively on patients' health status. Hypoglycaemia is a side effect associated with some antidiabetes medications that may also diminish QoL and treatment satisfaction. The aim of the PANORAMA study (NCT00916513) is to evaluate QoL and other PROs in patients with T2DM. It will investigate the association between these variables, the different diabetes treatment regimens used and levels of glycaemic control achieved across Europe. This report describes the rationale for conducting the PANORAMA study, and the study design.PANORAMA is an observational, multicentre, multinational, cross-sectional study. Approximately 5000 patients with T2DM currently treated with diet, oral antidiabetes agents and/or injectables (insulin and/or glucagon-like peptide-1 [GLP-1] analogues), ≥1-year follow up, will be randomly selected from a representative sample of mainly primary care practices across nine countries. Patient demographics; HbA(1c) level (standardised measurement); PROs, including QoL (ADDQoL), health status (EQ-5D), treatment satisfaction (DTSQ) and fear of hypoglycaemia (HFS-II); disease-related variables; health-economic variables; physician demographics and physician-reported outcomes will be collected.The large-scale, European-wide PANORAMA study is designed to evaluate QoL and other PROs in patients with T2DM.In this study, we investigated the quality of life (QoL) of long-term survivors with Hodgkin lymphoma who received high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT). QoL of this group was compared with QoL of patients who were treated with conventional chemotherapy and with QoL of the healthy German population. Two standardized questionnaires, the EORTC QLQ-C30 and the EQ-5D, including the visual analogue scale (VAS) were applied. A total of 98 patients were included in the study, all of them treated in our institution. Thirty-seven patients who received HDCT with PBSCT between 1986 and 2007 were compared with 61 patients treated with conventional chemotherapy and supplementary radiation between 1998 and 2009. The median follow-up for the HDCT group was 11 years. Statistical analysis with the one-sample t-test shows a reduced QoL of both groups of patients compared to the healthy population. Compared to the group of patients who received conventional chemotherapy, there is a tendency towards reduced QoL in patients with HDCT in all of the three main categories of the EORTC-QLQ-C30. However, these differences were not statistically significant, with the exception of the subcategory of dyspnoea, which was worse in the group that was treated with BCNU containing high-dose protocols. We conclude that the negative impact of both HDCT and conventional therapy on the QoL of long-term survivors with Hodgkin lymphoma should not be underestimated and should lead to the development of less toxic therapy strategies.Patient assessed quality of life is one of the principal end-points after day surgery. The aim of the present study was to describe the natural course, differences and timing of final evaluation for three common day surgical procedures; inguinal hernia repair (IHR), arthroscopic procedures (AS); and cosmetic breast augmentation (CBA).A total of 355 patients prospectively completed an extended eight-item EQ-5D questionnaire (pain, mobility, mood, self-care, activities, sleep, sex, need for analgesic), preoperatively and at one, three and six months postoperatively.Pain and mobility problems were frequently reported prior to surgery among IHR and AS patients, while CBA patients had less deviation from normal in the preoperative health profile. The proportions of patients reporting surgery-related deviations were 35%, 20% and 5% at one, three and six months respectively. After one month, 50% of AS patients still suffered subjective discomfort as compared to 13% and 20% of the IHR and CBA patients, respectively. Pain and ambulation problems were the most common symptoms in all groups. Six months after surgery, 94% of IHR, 89% of AS and 97% of CBA patients were fully recovered.No major morbidity or severe complications were observed and patients' satisfaction was high overall. We found procedure-specific changes in the postoperative health profile after day surgery. AS patients recovered more slowly compared with IHR and CBA patients. We conclude that time for final evaluation differs significantly between procedures.The EQ-5D is a widely used questionnaire for calculating quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for assessing cost-effectiveness in healthcare. It reflects the impact of common mental health conditions such as mild to moderate depression but seems to be more problematic for use in people with psychotic and severe and complex non-psychotic disorders.Poor dietary habits and nutritional intake are associated with a range of chronic diseases. Oral health may be directly associated with general health status, as well as related to diet. The aims are to assess dietary, self-reported oral health and socio-demographic predictors of general health status among older adults.Cross-sectional mailed survey.A random sample of adults in Adelaide, South Australia aged 60-71 years in 2008.Health status was measured using the EuroQol (EQ-5D). Compliance with dietary guidelines was measured using a 16-item index of grocery purchasing. Oral health was measured by self-reported number of teeth, oro-facial pain and sore gums. Socio-demographics included age, sex, birth place and subjective social status.Responses were collected from n=444 persons (response rate = 68.8%). The average EQ-5D score was 0.80 (se=0.01). Unadjusted analyses showed (p<0.05) EQ-5D scores were lower in the bottom tertile of compliance with dietary guidelines, for those reporting oro-facial pain, sore gums and fewer teeth, and for the lower social status group. Multivariate analyses showed (p<0.05) lower compliance with dietary guidelines was associated with poorer general health (beta=-0.10), as was oro-facial pain (beta=-0.11), sore gums (beta=-0.17), and lower social status (beta=-0.28).Socio-economic status, oral symptoms and compliance with dietary guidelines were associated with general health status.This review aimed to identify published studies that provide an empirical measure of process utility, which can be incorporated into estimates of QALY calculations.A literature search was conducted in PubMed to identify published studies of process utility. Articles were included if they were written in the English language and reported empirical measures of process utility that could be incorporated into the QALY calculation; those studies reporting utilities that were not anchored on a scale of 0 representing dead and 1 representing full health were excluded from the review.Fifteen studies published between 1996 and 2012 were included. Studies included respondents from the USA, Australia, Scotland and the UK, Europe and Canada. Eight of the included studies explored process utility associated with treatments; six explored process utility associated with screening procedures or tests; and one was performed in preventative care. A variety of approaches were used to detect and measure process utility: four studies used standard gamble techniques; four studies used time trade-off (TTO); one study used conjoint analysis and one used a combination of conjoint analysis and TTO; one study used SF-36 data; one study used both TTO and EQ-5D; and three studies used wait trade-off techniques. Measures of process utility for different drug delivery methods ranged from 0.02 to 0.27. Utility estimates associated with different dosing strategies ranged from 0.005 to 0.09. Estimates for convenience (able to take on an empty stomach) ranged from 0.001 to 0.028. Estimates of process utility associated with screening and testing procedures ranged from 0.0005 to 0.031. Both of these estimates were obtained for management approaches to cervical cancer screening.The identification of studies through conventional methods was difficult due to the lack of consistent indexing and terminology across studies; however, the evidence does support the existence of process utility in treatment, screening and preventative care settings. There was considerable variation between estimates. The range of methodological approaches used to identify and measure process utility, coupled with the need for further research into, for example, the application of estimates in economic models, means it is difficult to know whether these differences are a true reflection of the amount of process utility that enters into an individual's utility function, or whether they are associated with features of the studies' methodological design. Without further work, and a standardised approach to the methodology for the detection and measurement of process utility, comparisons between estimates are difficult. This literature review supports the existence of process utility and indicates that, despite the need for further research in the area, it could be an important component of an individual's utility function, which should at least be considered, if not incorporated, into cost-utility analyses.The TOwards a Revolution in COPD Health (TORCH) study was a 3-yr multicentre trial of 6,112 patients randomised to salmeterol (Salm), fluticasone propionate (FP), a Salm/FP combination (SFC) or placebo (P). Here the cost-effectiveness of treatments evaluated in the TORCH study is assessed. For four regions, 3-yr all-cause hospitalisation, medication and outpatient care costs were calculated. The sample was restricted to the 21 countries (n = 4,237) in which European quality of life five-dimension (EQ-5D) data were collected in order to estimate the number of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Regression models were fitted to survival, study medication cost, other medication cost and EQ-5D data in order to estimate total cost, number of QALYs and cost per QALY, adjusted for missing data and region. SFC had a trial-wide estimate of cost per QALY of 43,600 US dollars (USD) compared with P (95% confidence interval 21,400-123,500 USD). Estimates for Salm versus P (197,000 USD) and FP versus P (78,000 USD) were less favourable. The US estimates were greater than those from other regions; for SFC versus P, the cost per QALY was 77,100 (46,200-241,700) USD compared to 24,200 (15,200-56,100) USD in Western Europe. Compared with P, SFC has a lower incremental cost-effectiveness ratio than either FP or Salm used alone, and is, therefore, preferred to these monotherapies on the grounds of cost-effectiveness.To compare the Psoriatic Arthritis Quality of Life (PsAQoL) instrument, the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) as a measure of functional status, and the generic health status (utility) measure the EuroQoL (EQ-5D) in terms of ability to assess disease severity in psoriatic arthritis (PsA).The differences between known groups and correlations of the PsAQoL, the HAQ and the EQ-5D with clinical measures were analysed in a sample of 183 PsA patients.Different severities of PsA determined by known groups were distinguished well by all three questionnaires; more severe disease was associated with significantly worse values of the instruments. The correlations revealed a strong relationship between each of the measures, and with the patients' pain on the visual analogue scale (VAS), the patient global VAS, and the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI), and a weak relationship with the disease duration and the Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI). The PsAQoL also correlated strongly with the 28-joint Disease Activity Score (DAS28).The PsAQoL, the HAQ, and the EQ-5D are able to distinguish well across levels of PsA severity.Although dizziness is a common presenting symptom in general and hospital practice, its social cost is not known. We assessed the social and work life impact of dizziness on patients in two contrasting European cities, Siena and London. First, we developed the 'Social life & Work Impact of Dizziness questionnaire' (SWID), which was validated by administering it to 43 patients with dizziness and 45 normal controls and by correlating the results with the EQ-5D (Europe quality of life) questionnaire. The SWID and EQ-5D scores were worse in patients than controls (p < 0.001) and the two correlated significantly (r = 0.50 p < 0.001). Then two hundred consecutive patients per city attending tertiary specialised 'dizzy patient' clinics, one in London led by a neurologist, one in Siena led by an ear, nose and throat specialist (ENT), were investigated with SWID. Amongst the 400 patients, 27% reported changing their jobs and 21% giving up work as a result of the dizziness. Over 50% of patients felt that their efficiency at work had dropped considerably. The mean number of days off work attributed to the dizziness in the previous 6 months was 7.15 days. Social life was disrupted in 57% of all 400 patients. Factor analysis identified that detrimental effects on work, travel, social and family life combine to create a single factor accounting for much of the overall impact of their dizziness. Significant differences in some measures of handicap between London and Siena emerged, with London patients often faring worse. Reasons for these location differences include, as expected, a higher proportion of neurological patients in London than in Siena. However, factors related to city demographics and social cohesion may also modulate the impact on quality of life and working practice. Regardless of inter-city differences, these findings highlight the high social and economic impact of dizziness.To evaluate the 16- and 52-week effectiveness of add-on omalizumab treatment under real-life heterogeneity in patients, settings, and physicians in an open-label, multicenter, pharmaco-epidemiologic study of patients with severe persistent allergic asthma in Belgium.Effectiveness outcomes included improvement in 2005 global initiative for asthma (GINA) classification, physician-rated global evaluation of treatment effectiveness (GETE), quality of life (Juniper asthma-related quality of life (AQLQ) and European quality of life questionnaire 5 dimensions (EQ-5D)), and severe asthma exacerbations. Patients studied included both intent-to-treat and per-protocol populations.The sample (n=158) had a mean age of 48.17+/-17.18 years, and a slight majority were female (53.8%). Despite being treated with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta2-agonists, all patients experienced frequent symptoms and had exacerbations in the past year. At 16 weeks, >82% had good/excellent GETE (P values <0.001), >82% had an improvement in total AQLQ scores of > or =0.5 points (P<0.001), and >91% were severe exacerbation-free (P<0.001). At 52 weeks, >72% had a good/excellent GETE rating (P<0.001), >84% had improvements in total AQLQ score of > or =0.5 points (P<0.001), >56% had minimally important improvements in EQ-5D utility scores (P=0.012), and >65% were severe exacerbation-free (P<0.001). Significant reductions in healthcare utilization compared to the one year prior to treatment were noted.The PERSIST study shows better physician-rated effectiveness, greater improvements in quality of life, greater reductions in exacerbation rates, and greater reductions in healthcare utilization than previously reported in efficacy studies. Under real-life conditions, omalizumab is effective as add-on therapy in the treatment of patients with persistent severe allergic asthma.To evaluate the impact of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) enfuvirtide-based (ENF-based) salvage regimens of treatment-experienced HIV patients, in an observational multicenter cohort study.HRQoL was measured in a cohort of 16 patients over a 6-month follow-up using 2 instruments: the ISSQoL (Istituto Superiore di Sanità Quality of Life), a recently validated HIV-specific questionnaire; the EQ-5D (EuroQol), a generic widely used instrument. ENF was given at standard dosage along with an optimized background regimen.Most of HRQoL dimensions showed improvement in ENF-treated patients at the post-baseline time points. Social functioning was the only dimension showing a negative effect. Monthly care costs of antiretroviral drugs for HIV patients taking ENF plus an optimized background regimen were approximately euro2,348 per patient-month (range euro382-euro2,940).Our results show that the addition of ENF to an optimized background salvage-HAART may positively affect HRQoL not only in clinical trials but also in a sample population of patients used in a routine clinical practice.The goal of heart transplantation (HT) is not only to prolong the life of patients with end-stage heart failure, but also to offer them the sort of health they enjoyed before the disease. It is widely known that patients' functional capacity improves after HT but what about their quality of life (QoL)? Do functional capacity and QoL improve simultaneously? In the present study, we compared the progression of effort capacity and QoL in the first 2 years after HT. A prospective longitudinal study was performed in 58 heart transplant recipients (43 males, 15 females, age 51.6 ± 10 years) able to complete an effort test 2, 6, 12, and 24 months after transplantation. The studied variables included the five dimensions of the Euroqol-5D questionnaire (EQ-5D) test: mobility, self-care, daily activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety, and depression; a visual analog scale from 0 to 100; and the results (metabolic equivalent units [METs] and time of exercise) of the effort test at 2, 6, 12, and 24 months after transplantation. Analysis of variance was used to compare these variables at each point. Significance was set at P < .05. Functional capacity, measured by both METs and time of exercise, improved progressively (METs: 2 months: 5.2 ± 1.8, 6 months: 6.6 ± 2.1, 12 months: 7.5 ± 2.2, and 24 months: 8.5 ± 2.3, P < .001). As well, the result of EQ-5D questionare improved in parallel to exercise capacity. However, visual analog scale score did not change significatively during the follow-up (2 months: 78.9.3 ± 16.1, 6 months: 83.8 ± 11.3, 12 months: 83.3 ± 11.1, 24 months: 85.2 ± 14.9; P = .192), reaching a plateau at 6 to 24 months. In conclusion, the improvement in functional capacity shown by heart transplant recipients in the first 2 years after transplantation was not parallel to the feelings of well-being measured by the analog scale of the EQ-5D. Possibly long after transplantation patients will compare themselves to healthy people rather than to their state before HT, resulting in improvements the visual analog scale.Awareness of having an unruptured intracranial aneurysm can affect quality of life and provoke feelings of anxiety and depression, even in treated patients, because of fear of recurrence of aneurysms.To assess quality of life and feelings of anxiety and depression in patients with an unruptured aneurysm with or without aneurysm occlusion.We sent postal questionnaires (Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36, EuroQol-5D, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale) to 229 patients with an unruptured aneurysm and no history of subarachnoid hemorrhage identified from our database. Group mean scores and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were compared between the no intervention group and the intervention group and with a reference population using the Student t test and χ(2) test.In total, 173 questionnaires (76%) were returned. There were no statistically significant differences in quality of life and anxiety and depression levels between patients with and those without aneurysm occlusion. Patients in the no intervention group compared with the reference population had a significantly reduced quality of life in the physical function (-10.7; 95% CI, -16.2 to -5.1), role physical (-15.8; 95% CI, -25.5 to -6.0), role emotional (-9.9; 95% CI, -18.7 to -1.1), vitality (-7.2; 95% CI, -12.1 to -2.4), and general health (-11.6; 95% CI, -16.2 to -6.9) domains. Results were comparable in the intervention group except for the role emotional domain, which was not statistically significantly reduced.Patients with an unruptured aneurysm have a reduced quality of life compared with the reference population, mainly in physical domains, but without an apparent effect on mood or anxiety. The extent of reduction in quality of life is similar in patients with and without aneurysm occlusion.The purpose of the study was to assess quality of life and socio-economic parameters in patients after ablation of paroxysmal versus longstanding persistent atrial fibrillation (AF).The study included 89 patients with paroxysmal AF and 56 patients with longstanding persistent AF who underwent ablation within 1 year, and were afterwards prospectively followed up for 2 years. Quality of life was evaluated by the EQ-5D questionnaire before and every 6 months after ablation.Objective, respectively subjective quality of life at baseline was lower in patients with longstanding persistent AF (67 +/- 16 vs 71 +/- 10; p = 0.01, resp. 64 +/- 12 vs 67 +/- 16; p = 0.07); however, after 2 years, it exceeded that of the patients with paroxysmal AF (80 +/- 17 vs 75 +/- 18; p = 0.03; resp. 73 +/- 13 vs 70 +/- 17; p = 0.18). The baseline-2 year difference in improvement was higher in patients with longstanding persistent AF in both objective (p = 0.001) and subjective component (p = 0.05). Both groups displayed significant decrease in the days of hospitalization, and the days of working incapacity.Patients with longstanding persistent AF exhibit worse baseline quality of life than the patients with paroxysmal AF, and higher quality of life improvement after ablation.Revising existing health related-quality of life (HRQoL) instruments used among adults with the intention of making them child-friendly enables the collection of similar HRQoL data in children, adolescents and adults. The aim of this article is to describe and discuss the development process of a Swedish child-friendly pilot version of the EQ-5D instrument.We modified the existing Swedish EQ-5D adult version to make it child-friendly. Within a multidisciplinary research group, we investigated linguistic and interpretation issues by performing face-to-face and group interviews with children and adolescents aged 6-17 years.The first modification of the adult language was to change single words into words intelligible to and used by children [e.g. changing 'depression' (depression) into 'ledsen' (sad)]. The second related to whole expressions (using verb-form in the headings of dimensions).The advantage of being able to collect much the same data from children and adolescents, for example in population surveys covering all ages and in chronic childhood diseases, as for adults might outweigh possible disadvantages of modifying existing HRQoL instruments. The Swedish child-friendly EQ-5D pilot version resulting from this development process is further tested for feasibility and construct validity in a clinical interview study; initial results are reported in a subsequent paper.There is an increasing interest in studying health-related quality of life in children and adolescents. A Swedish child-friendly pilot version of the EQ-5D instrument has been developed. The aim of this article is to report on its assessment of feasibility and discriminative validity.A questionnaire with the child-friendly pilot version was addressed during a clinical examination to 260 children aged 8 years and 230 children aged 12 years. Comprehensibility and acceptability were investigated and feasibility was assessed according to missing and ambiguous answers. Discriminative validity was investigated by determining whether groups that were a priori known to differ in health status (by clinical and socio-demographic characteristics) were distinguished also by the percentage of reported problems on the five health dimensions and by visual analogue scale (VAS) scores.Feasibility was supported for self-completion in the presence of an interviewer. Discriminative validity was supported as children with asthma or rhinitis, severe illness or handicap, having consulted health care during the past 3 months, overweight and obesity and children with a parent born outside the Nordic countries reported more problems and had lower VAS scores.The results of the initial testing of the Swedish child-friendly pilot version of the EQ-5D instrument indicate feasibility and discriminative validity. However, further research should explore alternative modes of administration and study design, and be performed in groups with a larger proportion with diseased children.To determine how patient-rated osteoarthritis (OA) severity correlates with other patient-reported and clinical outcomes in the European clinical setting.We used the Adelphi Arthritis VII (2008) Disease Specific Program (DSP). OA severity was patient-rated using the question 'How bad would you say your arthritis is now?' with responses of 'mild,' 'moderate,' and 'severe.' Patient-reported outcomes included a 0-100 mm pain visual analogue scale (VAS); questions on daily functioning; Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) scale; and EuroQoL (EQ-5D). Regression models and chi-square analyses evaluated relationships between self-rated OA severity and other outcomes.Patient-reported data were available from 1739 individuals (63.1% female, mean age 64.4 [standard deviation 11.9] years) from France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the UK. With increasing OA severity; mild (24.5%), moderate (56.3%), severe (19.2%), statistically significant differences (p<0.05) were observed with higher pain VAS scores (28.3, 49.9, 69.2, respectively), reduced function, and greater overall work impairment due to OA (24.3%, 38.5%, 68.6%, respectively). Significant associations of patient-reported OA severity with function and health status were indicated, including the EQ-5D health state index; 0.77 (mild), 0.62 (moderate), 0.30 (severe) (p<0.0001). Physicians tended to overestimate patients who rated their OA as mild, and underrate patients who rated their OA as severe.In five European countries, patient-rated OA severity was associated with other patient-reported outcomes, and may be of benefit in the clinical setting when choosing treatment options aimed at improving pain, function and productivity, providing an accurate and tangible assessment of patient's perceptions of their disease.Quality of life (QoL) measures are important in growth hormone (GH) deficiency (GHD) in adults. Ideally, for use in health economics, QoL should be expressed in utilities. The aim of this study was to obtain reference values and utilities for QoL of GHD in adults in Belgium and the Netherlands.The study was conducted in three stages: (1) The Quality of Life-Assessment for Growth Hormone Deficiency in Adults (QoL-AGHDA) and the EQ-5D were administered in a representative sample of 6,875 individuals from the Belgian and 1,400 individuals from the general Dutch population. The EQ-5D(index) can be used to estimate utilities. Using a regression, utilities were predicted from the QoL-AGHDA. (2) QoL-AGHDA scores were obtained from 299 Belgian and 234 Dutch adult patients with GHD and no GH replacement. These scores were converted to utilities and compared the burden of disease with other patient groups. (3) To test the criterion validity, the 'standard' EQ-5D(index) was used in a subsample of 64 Dutch GHD patients and compared with the predicted utilities.We obtained data from 1,026 Belgian (response rate = 15%) and 1,038 Dutch respondents (response rate = 74%). The Belgian mean QoL-AGHDA value was 6.95 (90% range = 14.00), and the Dutch mean was 5.48 (range = 13.00). The R (2) of the regression model to predict the EQ-5D(index) was 0.360 (Belgium) and 0.482 (the Netherlands). We demonstrated a considerable burden of disease in GHD patients, comparable to patients with hypertension or with type II diabetes. The criterion validity was 0.407 (intraclass correlation, ICC).Interventions in GHD can now be evaluated more validly in Belgium and the Netherlands.The purpose of this single-center, randomized, controlled trial was to report on the 2-year outcomes of proximal humerus fractures in elderly patients treated with open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) with either a locking plate or shoulder hemiarthroplasty. Thirty-two patients (87% women) with a mean age of 71.9 years (range, 67-86 years) were treated with ORIF with either a locking plate or shoulder hemiarthroplasty after shoulder injury. The main outcome measures were the Constant score, Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) score, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) according to the EQ-5D (EuroQol Group, Rotterdam, The Netherlands). At final 2-year follow-up, DASH and pain scores favored the shoulder hemiarthroplasty group. Mean flexion was 129° in the shoulder hemiarthroplasty group and 117° in the ORIF group (P=.27), and mean abduction was 123° in the shoulder hemiarthroplasty group and 111° in the ORIF group (P=.41). In the shoulder hemiarthroplasty group, the EQ-5D index score decreased from 0.85±0.21 before injury to 0.65±0.14 at 4 months postoperatively. The score was 0.79±0.24 at 12 months postoperatively and 0.81±0.17 at 24 months postoperatively. The results of this study indicate an advantage in functional outcomes and HRQoL favoring shoulder hemiarthroplasty compared with ORIF with a locking plate, although most outcomes were not significantly different.Rare long-term neurological conditions (rLTNCs) may have significant impact on patients' health-related quality of life (HRQL); however, evidence is sparse. We assessed HRQL and access to supportive care in patients with rLTNCs.Survey of patients with rare rLTNCs (motor neurone disease, Huntington's disease, cerebellar ataxia, progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and postpolio syndrome) to assess current access to health and social care, and HRQL using the Euroqol EQ-5D.A total of 266 participants with rLTNCs completed the survey. The HRQL of patients is substantially reduced compared to the general population. Many patients reported pain, were anxious or depressed and experienced problems with mobility, self-care and usual activities (mean EQ-5D index scores ranged from 0.2 to 0.44). Although some patients have accessed rehabilitative services, results suggest care coordination could be improved.Rare long-term neurological conditions have a significant impact on HRQL. Many patients with rLTNCs do not seem to be accessing the level of health and social care services that could improve their HRQL.Although most proximal humeral fractures are attributed to osteoporosis, they are usually not considered individually in osteoporotic studies because of their lower incidence. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the incidence of nondisplaced proximal humeral fractures in comparison with other outpatient-treated osteoporotic fractures, as well as to assess their functional impact and effects on patient-perceived quality of life.In this multicenter, cross-sectional, prospective study, all osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women aged 50 years or older treated nonoperatively in 358 trauma centers were recorded during a 3-month period. Fractures were considered osteoporotic if caused by a low-energy trauma. Pathologic fractures were excluded. The incidence of proximal humeral fractures in relation to other osteoporotic fractures was calculated. Patients were interviewed by telephone 6 months after the fracture with the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand and EuroQoL 5D questionnaires.This study comprised 5,147 women (mean age, 72.6 ± 7.5 years) with 5,268 fractures. Of these, 912 (17.5%) had had proximal humeral fractures. The mean Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand score was 26.6 ± 25.7. Of the women, 67.3% had pain or discomfort and disclosed significant reductions in functional capacity, especially with regard to self-care (44.5%), daily life activities (56.5%), and anxiety or depression (32.7%).Nondisplaced proximal humeral fractures are among the most common fractures associated with osteoporosis, and they can be a major cause of functional disability and reduction in subjective patient-perceived health.The study aims to define predictors of neurological dysfunction, 30-day mortality, long-term survival and quality of life following repair of acute type A aortic dissection (AAAD).Between 2000 and 2008, 65 patients underwent repair of AAAD. Sixty-four pre-, intra- and post-operative variables were studied. Mean follow-up was 26.6 months.The mean age was 61years; 60% were male and five had Marfan's syndrome. At presentation, ischaemic ECG changes were seen in 45%, malperfusion syndrome in 59%, moderate-severe aortic regurgitation in 48% and tamponade in 16%. EF was <40% in 17%. There was a delay of >12hours between diagnosis and operation in 64%. Axillary cannulation was performed in 37%. Cerebral protection was by hypothermic arrest (HCA) alone (19%), HCA with retrograde cerebral perfusion (RCP) (11%), or HCA with antegrade cerebral perfusion (ACP) (46%). The procedure was performed on cross-clamp in 24%. Full arch replacement was performed in 14% and concomitant coronary artery grafting was performed in 11%. Post-operative neurological dysfunction was present in 33.8%. The only significant predictor of poor neurological outcome was full arch replacement (p=0.04) on univariate analysis. In-hospital OR 30 mortality was 23.53%. Significant predictors of mortality were low ejection fraction (p=0.017) and post-operative renal failure (p=0.012). Long-term survival was 70% at two years, 50% at five years and 25% at nine years. Functional outcomes and long-term quality of life were assessed in 69% of patients who were alive at last follow-up. Ninety percent of patients reported minimal limitation on functional scores. Quality of life was assessed using the EQ-5D questionnaire. Forty-eight percent of patients recorded full health with an overall mean index of 0.854 (where the best possible score is 1) using the US preference weighted index score.Discharged patients have reasonable long-term survival and good quality of life.This study seeks to present the translation and validation of the SF-6D in the Brazilian context, based on the model and the version developed in the United Kingdom in 2002.An observational and transversal study. The tools for assessing quality of life were applied, namely HAQ, SF-36, EQ-5D and SF-6D (2002 version). Descriptive statistics and correlation coefficients were used for data analysis.200 patients with rheumatoid arthritis, with a mean age of 49.22 years, 11.16 years of disease and mean HAQ 1.02 were studied. Preferences measured by the SF-6D, the EQ-5D and the techniques of EVA, TTO and SG were found to correlate among themselves, with Pearson coefficients from 0.19 to 0.66 (p <0.01).The SF-6D Brazil questionnaire represents a valid option for assessing preferences on economic analysis conducted in Brazil.Compare the preference measures derived from the SF-36, based on the two Brazilian versions of the Short Form 6 Dimensions questionnaire-Brazil (SF-6D Brazil).Observational and transversal study. The following quality of life assessment instruments were applied: HAQ, SF-36, EQ-5D and SF-6D (1998 and 2002 versions). Descriptive statistics and correlation coefficients were used for data analysis.The study assessed 200 patients suffering from rheumatoid arthritis, with a mean age of 49.22 years, mean time with the disease of 11.16 years and mean HAQ score of 1.02. Preferences measured by the two versions of the SF-6D and by the EQ-5D showed significant correlations with one another, and Pearson coefficients ranged from 0.59 to 0.88 (p<0.01).The most current version of the SF-6D, based on the 2002 model, was found to be valid when compared to the version initially validated to Brazil and is a questionnaire alternative to assess preferences in economic analyses carried out in health care.Rigidity is a cardinal symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD) and is often clinically assessed by passively flexing and extending a patient's limb. Objective measurements had been employed to examine rigidity in PD subjects, including wrist, elbow, knee and trunk. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between an objective measurement of trunk rigidity and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and functional status in patients with mild to moderate PD.An isokinetic dynamometer Biodex System 3 was employed to assess trunk rigidity in 36 PD patients. HRQoL was assessed with the EuroQol-5D and Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 items (PDQ-39). Functional status was measured with the Schwab and England scale.Trunk rigidity was correlated with the HRQoL assessed with the mobility, cognition and stigma PDQ-39 domains and the total PDQ-39 scores. No correlations were found among trunk muscle tone assessed with the isokinetic dynamometer and the EuroQoL-5D. Functional status was correlated with the trunk extensors rigidity at all angular velocities.The results from this study suggest that the axial motor impairments impact on QoL and functional status in patients with PD. Further studies are needed with quantitative devices for axial rigidity assessment to determine the relationship between trunk rigidity in PD patients with higher disease severity and HRQoL scales.Parkinson's disease is a disabling and progressive neurological condition characterized by multiple motor and non motor symptoms that contribute to deterioration in quality of life. The diversity of symptoms associated with the disease and its management affect the patients on their physical, social and mental quality of life. The aim of this study was to identify key dimensions of health related quality of life (HRQOL) in a population affected with Parkinson's disease with a degree of mild-moderate impairment. Thirty six patients with Parkinson were recruited. The Hoehn and Yarh scale, the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rate Scale, the scale of activities of daily life and Schwab & England Get Up & Go Test were applied. HRQOL was assessed with the EuroQol-5D and the specific questionnaire Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 items. The dimensions of the PDQ-39, except the PDQ-39 Pain domain and the EuroQol-5D correlated significantly with the severity of the disease. HRQOL was correlated with the functional status of patients. Only the PDQ-39 pain domain correlated with the risk of falls. Our results suggest that the HRQOL of patients with PD, in a state of mild-moderate impairment, is strongly influenced by disease severity and functional status.The validity of Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) recalled by ICU admitted patients have not been published. The aim of this study was to compare the baseline HRQOL measured before surgery and ICU admission with that recalled at 3 and 6 months in a population of patients with planned ICU admission after surgery.This prospective study was performed in three Italian centres on patients who had undergone General, Orthopaedic or Urologic surgery. All adult patients with planned ICU admission between October 2007 and July 2008 were considered for enrolment. At hospital admission, the Mini Mental Status Examination and EuroQoL (EQ) questionnaire (referring to the last two weeks) were administered to the patients who consented. Three and six months after ICU admission, the researchers administered by phone the EQ questionnaire and Post-Traumatic Stress Syndrome 14 questions Inventory, asking the patients to rate their HRQOL before surgery and ICU admission. Past medical history demographic and clinical ICU-related variables were collected.Chi-square test and non parametric statistics were used to compare groups of patients. The EQ-5D was transformed in the time trade-off (TTO) to obtain a continuous variable, subsequently analysed using the Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC).Of the 104 patients assessed at baseline and discharged from the hospital, 93 had the EQ administered at 3 months, and 89 at 6 months. The ICC for TTO recalled at 3 months vs pre-ICU TTO was 0.851, and that for TTO recalled at 6 months vs pre-ICU TTO was 0.833. The ICC for the EQ-VAS recalled at 3 months vs pre-ICU EQ-VAS was 0.648, and that for the EQ-VAS recalled at 6 months vs pre-ICU EQ-VAS was 0.580. Forty-two (45%) patients assessed at 3 months gave the same score in all EQ-5D items as at baseline. They underwent mainly orthopaedic surgery (p 0.011), and perceived the severity of their illness as lower (p 0.009) than patients scoring differently at 3 months in comparison with baseline.The patients with planned ICU admission have a good memory of their health status as measured by EQ-5D in the period preceding surgery and ICU admission, especially at three months.To identify the main determinants of burden and perceived health status in caregivers of Brazilian stroke survivors.Cross-sectional study. Caregivers answered the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Zarit caregiver burden interview (ZCBI) and EuroQol. Patients were assessed with the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale, Barthel index (BI), modified-Rankin scale (m-RS), Mini Mental State Examination and HADS.200 caregiver-patient dyads were assessed. Caregivers were significantly younger (42 vs. 57.7 years) and had more years of formal education (10 vs. 7.8 years); p < 0.0001. Seventy-seven percent of caregivers were females, and 41% were spouses. The prevalence of anxiety disorders was significantly higher in female caregivers than in males (26.1 vs. 10.9%; p = 0.04). ZCBI mean score was 27.2, and female caregivers had significantly worse scores (28.7 vs. 22.3, p = 0.003). ZCBI mean score significantly increased (worsened) as the severity of the disease, based on m-RS, increased. ZCBI mean scores were significantly higher in wives than in other relatives (31.4 vs. 22.6; ANOVA, p < 0.0001). The EuroQol-5D and EuroQol-Visual Analog Scale mean scores were 0.7 (range: 0.04-0.85) and 75.2 (range: 1-100), respectively. Adequate convergent validity (r = -0.38 to -0.40) between EuroQol and ZBCI mean scores was observed. Patient s disability (as measured by the BI) and caregiver's factors (female sex, depression as measured by HADS-depression) were independent predictors of caregiver's burden (r2 adjusted = 0.48; p < 0.0001) in the multivariate regression analysis.Caregiver's mood was the most consistent factor influencing caregiver burden and perceived health in stroke caregivers.Independent validation of the Non motor Symptoms Scale in Parkinson's disease (NMSS) based on a cross-culturally adapted Brazilian version.Parkinson's disease (PD) patients were evaluated by means of the Scales for Outcomes in Parkinson's disease-Motor (SCOPA-M), Autonomic, Cognition, and Psychosis; Hoehn and Yahr staging (H&Y); Berg Balance Scale; PD Sleep Scale; Clinical Impression of Severity Index for PD (CISI-PD); PDQ-39; and EQ-5D. The following clinimetric attributes were explored for the NMSS: acceptability, scaling assumptions, reliability, construct validity, and precision.150 patients were assessed (mean age 63.1 years; 56.7% males; mean duration of illness 8.7 years; HY median: 2). Mean NMSS was 48.9 (SD 36.3; median 42; skewness 1.3). Neither floor nor ceiling effect was observed on the NMSS total score. For domains, the Cronbach's alpha coefficient ranged from 0.40 to 0.82. The NMSS total score correlated significantly with SCOPA-AUT (r(S) = 0.65) and with those scales measuring related constructs (r(S) = 0.46-0.57). NMSS significantly increased as the H&Y stage increased (Kruskal-Wallis, p < 0.0001). These values were quite close to those from the original validation studies.The NMSS is a reliable and valid measure to evaluate non motor symptoms in Brazilian PD patients.Despite the efficacy of methadone maintenance treatment (MMT), opioid dependence still involves severe impairment of functioning and low quality of life. This study examines the influence of the psychiatric comorbidity of MMT patients on their quality of life. A total of 193 middle-aged patients in long-term MMT were assessed for current and lifetime Axis I psychiatric disorders, substance use disorders, and personality disorders using the MINI, the CIDI-SAM, and the SIDP-IV. Quality of life (Qol) was assessed using the EQ-5D. Psychiatric comorbidity was documented in 78% of the patients. Mood disorders (60%) and anxiety disorders (46%) were the most common diagnoses. Additional substance use disorders were diagnosed in 70% of the MMT patients. While a probable personality disorder was documented for 65% of the patients, 66 of these patients actually showed an antisocial personality disorder. Qol was severely diminished to a level comparable to that for patients with chronic psychiatric and/or somatic disorders. Multivariate analyses showed the occurrence of comorbid psychiatric disorders to explain about 32% of the variance in Qol. The quality of life for MMT patients is generally low. The present results showed a high rate of psychiatric comorbidity for this patient group with mood disorders, additional substance use disorders, and personality disorders occurring in particular. Such comorbid psychopathology substantially affects quality of life. The negative influence of comorbid psychopathology on quality of life is an important reason to provide additional mental health services for MMT patients.Many venous trials mix patients with great saphenous vein (GSV) and small saphenous vein (SSV) diseases. There is no evidence that both respond similarly to treatment and our aim was to test this assumption.This cohort study compares patients with isolated GSV and SSV incompetence following treatment with open surgical ligation or endovenous laser ablation (EVLA). Outcomes included: quality of life (QoL; Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire [AVVQ]; Short Form 36 [SF36]; Euroqol [EQ5D]; and Venous Clinical Severity Score [VCSS]).A total of 370 patients with no differences in baseline QoL, underwent treatment. Despite equivalent morbidity, SSV sufferers had a lower VCSS (P < 0.001). Following surgery, SSV patients scored higher (worse) on AVVQ (P = 0.045) than GSV sufferers, but lower (better) following EVLA (P = 0.042).The morbidity associated with SSV incompetence is greater than suggested by its clinical severity and responds differently following treatment to that of the GSV. Trials should consider patients with GSV and SSV reflux separately. EVLA may offer additional benefits to SSV sufferers.The durability of occlusion post endovenous laser therapy (EVLT) for varicose veins is linked to the magnitude of energy delivered to the vein and consequently increasing amounts of energy are employed. The aim of this study is to establish whether increasing the energy results in greater periprocedural morbidity or complications.Linear and logistic regression models were built to study the effect of energy delivery on outcome. The models controlled for age, gender, BMI, pre-operative quality of life and vein dimension. The outcomes were pain and analgesia requirement in week 1, change in disease specific quality of life (Aberdeen varicose vein questionnaire (AVVQ), change in generic quality of life (Short Form-36 (SF-36) and Euroqol (EQ5D)at week 1 and 6 and complication rates. The sample size calculation established that 115 patients would be required to detect any significant relationship.232 patients were included. The mean (range) age was 50 (18-83) years. 63% were women. The mean (range) energy delivery was 89.8 (44.5-158.4) J/cm. There was no significant effect on any outcome related to increasing energy delivery.Up to 160 J/cm, increasing energy delivery has no significant effect upon the morbidity or complications of EVLT for superficial venous insufficiency.A clear understanding of the relationship between venous reflux, clinical venous disease and the effects on quality of life (QoL) remains elusive. This study aimed to explore the impact of venous disease, and assess any incremental direct effect of progressive disease on health-related QoL, with the ultimate aim to model venous morbidity.Consecutive patients with venous disease were assessed for inclusion in the study. Patients with isolated, unilateral, single superficial axial incompetence diagnosed on duplex imaging were included. Clinical grading was performed with the Clinical Etiologic Anatomic Pathophysiologic (CEAP) classification and Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS). Patients completed generic (Short Form 36, SF-36(®); EuroQol 5D, EQ-5D(™)) and disease-specific (Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire, AVVQ) QoL instruments. Multivariable regression modelling was performed, taking account of demographic and anatomical factors, to explore the effect of clinical severity on QoL impairment.Some 456 patients with C2-6 venous disease were included, along with control data for 105 people with C0-1 disease. Increasing clinical grade corresponded strongly with deterioration in disease-specific QoL (P < 0.001). This could be stratified into three distinguishable groups: C0-1, C2-4 and C5-6 (P < 0.001 to P = 0.006). Increasing clinical grade also corresponded with deterioration in the physical domains of SF-36(®) (P < 0.001 to P = 0.016), along with EQ-5D(™) index utility (quality-adjusted life year) scores (P < 0.001).Demonstrable morbidity was seen, even with uncomplicated venous disease. The physical impairment seen with venous ulceration was comparable with that seen in congestive cardiac failure and chronic lung disease.The management of residual varicosities following endovenous laser therapy (EVLT) for varicose veins is contentious. Ambulatory phlebectomy may be performed concomitantly with the initial EVLT, or sequentially as a secondary procedure. This randomized trial compared these two approaches.Fifty patients with great saphenous varicose veins were randomized to EVLT alone or EVLT with concomitant ambulatory phlebectomies (EVLTAP). Principal outcomes were procedure duration, pain scores, requirement for secondary procedures and quality of life after 3 months.EVLTAP took longer, but significantly decreased the requirement for subsequent interventions. There was no impairment in immediate postprocedural pain, Short Form 36 or EuroQol 5D scores with EVLTAP. Median (i.q.r.) Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS) at 3 months was lower for EVLTAP than for EVLT alone (0 (0-1) versus 2 (0-2); P < 0.001), with lower Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire (AVVQ) scores at 6 weeks (7.9 (4.1-10.7) versus 13.5 (10.9-18.1); P < 0.001) and 3 months (2.0 (0.4-7.7) versus 9.6 (2.2-13.8); P = 0.015). At 1 year, there were no differences in VCSS or AVVQ scores.Concomitant phlebectomy with EVLT prolonged the procedure, but reduced the need for secondary procedures and significantly improved quality of life and the severity of venous disease.Utility values are not usually assessed in clinical trials and do not allow cost-utility analysis to be performed with the data collected. The aim of this study was to derive relation functions so that Health Assessment Questionnaire - Disability Index (HAQ-DI) scores could be used to estimate Health Utilities Index - 3 (HUI-3) and EQ-5D utility values for patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).An observational, cross-sectional, naturalistic, multicentre study was conducted. A total of 244 patients aged 18 years or older, with RA according to American College of Rheumatology diagnostic criteria, were recruited. Sociodemographic and clinical variables were recorded and patients completed three generic HRQoL questionnaires: the HAQ-DI, the HUI-3, and the EQ-5D. Two linear regression models were used to predict HUI-3 and EQ-5D utility values as functions of HAQ-DI scores, age, and gender.Patient mean age was 57.8 years old (standard deviation [SD], 13.3 years); 75.8% of the patients were women and 95.9% were white. Mean disease duration was 10.8 years (SD, 9 years). Patient distribution according to HAQ-DI severity was as follows: HAQ-DI < 0.5, 29%; 0.5 ≤ HAQ-DI < 1.1, 28%; 1.1 ≤ HAQ-DI < 1.6, 16%,1.6 ≤ HAQ-DI < 2.1, 15%; and HAQ-DI ≥ 2.1, 12%. HAQ-DI and EQ-5D mean scores were 1.02 (SD, 0.78) and 63.1 (SD, 20.3), respectively. Mean utility values for HUI-3 and time trade-off (TTO) were 0.75 (SD, 0.21) and 0.65 (SD, 0.3), respectively. The equations converting HAQ-DI scores to utilities were HUI-3 = 0.9527 - (0.2018 × HAQ-DI) +ε (R(2)=0.56), and TTO = 0.9567 - (0.309 × HAQ-DI) + ε (R(2)=0.54). Error distribution was non-normal. Age and gender were found to have no bearing on the utility functions.HAQ-DI scores can be used to estimate HUI-3 and EQ-5D utility values for patients with RA in data obtained from studies where utility values have not been collected.Zoledronic acid (ZOL) reduces the risk of skeletal related events (SREs) in hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) patients with bone metastases. This study assessed the cost effectiveness of ZOL for SRE management in French, German, Portuguese, and Dutch HRPC patients.This analysis was based on the results of a randomized phase III clinical trial wherein HRPC patients received up to 15 months of ZOL (n = 214) or placebo (n = 208). Clinical inputs were obtained from the trial. Costs were estimated using hospital tariffs, published, and internet sources. Quality adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained were estimated from a separate analysis of EQ-5D scores reported in the trial. Uncertainty surrounding outcomes was addressed via univariate sensitivity analyses.ZOL patients experienced an estimated 0.759 fewer SREs and gained an estimated 0.03566 QALYs versus placebo patients. ZOL was associated with reduced SRE-related costs [net costs] (-€2396 [€1284] in France, -€2606 [€841] in Germany, -€3326 [€309] in Portugal and -€3617 [€87] in the Netherlands). Costs per QALY ranged from €2430 (Netherlands) to €36,007 (France).This analysis is subject to the limitations of most cost-effectiveness analyses: it combines data from multiple sources. Nevertheless, the results strongly suggest that ZOL is cost effective versus placebo in French, German, Portuguese, and Dutch HRPC patients.Factors Influencing Depression Endpoints Research (FINDER) is a 6-month, prospective, observational study carried out in 12 European countries aimed at investigating health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in outpatients receiving treatment for a first or new depressive episode. The Italian HRQoL data at 6 months is described in this report, and the factors associated with HRQoL changes were determined.Data were collected at baseline, 3 and 6 months of treatment. HRQoL was measured using components of the 36-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36; mental component summary (MCS), physical component summary (PCS)) and the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D; visual analogue scale (VAS) and health status index (HSI)). The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) was adopted to evaluate depressive symptoms, while somatic and painful physical symptoms were assessed by using the 28-item Somatic Symptom Inventory (SSI-28) and a VAS.Of the initial 513 patients, 472 completed the 3-month observation and 466 the 6-month observation. The SF-36 and EQ-5D mean (+/- SD) scores showed HRQoL improvements at 3 months and a further smaller improvement at 6 months, with the most positive effects for SF-36 MCS (baseline 22.0 +/- 9.2, 3 months 34.6 +/- 10.0; 6 months 39.3 +/- 9.5) and EQ-5D HSI (baseline 0.4 +/- 0.3; 3 months 0.7 +/- 0.3; 6 months 0.7 +/- 0.2). Depression and anxiety symptoms (HADS-D mean at baseline 13.3 +/- 4.2; HADS-A mean at baseline 12.2 +/- 3.9) consistently decreased during the first 3 months (8.7 +/- 4.3; 7.5 +/- 3.6) and showed a further positive change at 6 months (6.9 +/- 4.3; 5.8 +/- 3.4). Somatic and painful symptoms (SSI and VAS) significantly decreased, with the most positive changes in the SSI-28 somatic item (mean at baseline 2.4 +/- 0.7; mean change at 3 months: -0.5; 95% CI -0.6 to -0.5; mean change at 6 months: -0.7; 95% CI -0.8 to -0.7); in 'interference of overall pain with daily activities' (mean at baseline 45.2 +/- 30.7; mean change at 3 months -17.4; 95% CI -20.0 to -14.8; mean change at 6 months -24.4; 95% CI -27.3 to -21.6) and in 'having pain while awake' (mean at baseline 41.1 +/- 29.0; mean change at 3 months -13.7; 95% CI -15.9 to -11.5; mean change at 6 months -20.2; 95% CI -22.8 to -17.5) domains. The results from linear regression analyses showed that the antidepressant switch within classes was consistently associated with a worsening in SF-36 MCS, EQ-5D VAS and HSI compared to non-switching treatment. Furthermore, between-group antidepressants (AD) switch was associated with a worse SF-36 MCS and EQ-5D HSI. MCS (P = 0.028), PCS (P = 0.036) and HSI (P = 0.002) were inversely related to the number of each previous additional depressive episode. PCS (P = 0.009) and HSI (P = 0.005) were also less improved in patients suffering from a chronic medical condition. Moreover, PCS (P = 0.044) and EQ-5D VAS (P < 0.0001) worsening was consistently associated with the presence of a psychiatric illness in the 24 months before baseline. For every additional point on the SSI-somatic score and on the overall pain VAS score at baseline, HSI score were on average 0.062 (P < 0.001) and 0.001 (P = 0.005) smaller, respectively.After starting AD treatment, HRQoL improvements at 3 and 6 months were observed. However, several factors can negatively influence HRQoL, such as the presence of somatic and painful symptoms, the presence of any chronic medical condition or previous psychiatric illness.Pragmatic randomized clinical trial.This study investigated differences in the clinical outcomes of public physiotherapy (public PT) versus private physiotherapy (private PT) for general practitioner-referred patients with acute and chronic low back pain (LBP).Health care setting (i.e., public or private) has been found to influence the course and clinical outcome of common diseases. Despite the international burden of LBP, the effect of health care setting on clinical outcomes has not been investigated in this population.One hundred sixty consenting patients, who were referred for physiotherapy for LBP by their general practitioner, completed the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (primary outcome), Short-Form 36 v2, Fear Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire, Back Beliefs Questionnaire, EuroQol EQ5D, and Patient Satisfaction Questionnaires. The patients were stratified (acute LBP: ≤ 3 months, n = 55; chronic LBP: > 3 months, n = 105), randomly allocated to receive public PT (n = 3 hospitals) or private PT (n = 12 clinics), and followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months postrandomization.Repeated measures analysis of variance showed significant improvement over time for 9 predominantly biomedical outcomes: (i) Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire at 3 and 6 months, (ii) Short-Form 36 v2 Physical Component Score, Bodily Pain, Role Physical, General Health, Vitality, EQ5D visual analogue scale, and weighted health index scores at 3 months, and (iii) the Back Beliefs Questionnaire at 6 months. The remaining 7 biopsychosocial outcomes showed no change over time, and the "between within" repeated measures analysis of variance showed no significant differences between groups over time for any outcome measures (P > 0.05). Independent samples t tests found no significant differences between groups in the mean changes in outcome measures from baseline at 12 months, apart from SF-36 v2 Role Physical (mean difference, 95% CI = 5.64 [0.860-10.428]; t = 2.337; P = 0.021) in favor of the private PT group. There were significantly higher levels of satisfaction with outcome of treatment in the private PT group (median [IQR]: public PT: 5.0 [2.0]; private PT: 6.0 [2.0]; Mann-Whitney U test = 1324.50; P = 0.020), but no differences in satisfaction with treatment or global perceived improvement (P > 0.05). The private PT group had a significantly shorter waiting time (mean difference = 39.79 days; 95% CI: 26.88-52.69; t = 6.121; P < 0.001) and treatment duration (mean difference: 23.48 days; 95% CI: 7.43-39.52; t = 2.909; P = 0.005) than public PT. Participants in both groups were treated with advice/education, manipulative therapy, and exercise therapy, with minimal use of cognitive behavioral approaches in either group. Physiotherapists in the private PT group had significantly more experience and more postgraduate qualifications than the public PT group (P < 0.005).Despite differences between public and private PT regarding waiting times for treatment and therapist experience, there were no significant differences between groups in the majority of clinical outcome measure scores at follow-up, apart from SF-36 Role Physical and satisfaction with treatment outcome in favor of the private PT group.A review of the literature was undertaken to evaluate the development and psychometric properties of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) measures used in adults with SLE. This information will help clinicians make an informed choice about the measures most appropriate for research and clinical practice.Using the key words lupus and quality of life, full original papers in English were identified from six databases: OVID MEDLINE, EMBASE, Allied and Complementary Medicine, Psychinfo, Web of Science and Health and Psychosocial Instruments. Only studies describing the validation of HRQoL measures in adult SLE patients were retrieved.Thirteen papers were relevant; five evaluated generic instruments [QOLS-S (n = 1), EQ-5D/SF-6D (n = 1), SF-36 (n = 3)] and eight evaluated disease-specific measures [L-QOL (n = 1), LupusQoL (UK) (n = 1), LupusQoL (US) (n = 1), SSC (n = 2), SLEQOL (n = 3)]. For the generic measures, there is moderate evidence of good content validity and internal consistency, whereas there is strong evidence for both these psychometric properties in disease-specific measures. There is limited to moderate evidence to support the construct validity and test-retest reliability for the disease-specific measures. Responsiveness and floor/ceiling effects have not been adequately investigated in any of the measures.Direct comparison of the psychometric properties was difficult because of the different methodologies employed in the development and evaluation of the different HRQoL measures. However, there is supportive evidence that multidimensional disease-specific measures are the most suitable in terms of content and internal reliability for use in studies of adult patients with SLE.The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact on the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of sunitinib versus interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) treatment in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC).In all, 304 mRCC patients (European cohort) were randomized 1 : 1 to receive sunitinib (50 mg/day for 4 weeks, followed by 2 weeks off) or IFN-alpha (9 million units s.c. injection three times/week). The following questionnaires were completed (days 1 and 28 per cycle): Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G), the FACT-Kidney Symptom Index and the EuroQol Group's EQ-5D self-report questionnaire (EQ-5D). Results correspond to an ongoing trial with progression-free survival time as primary end point, and patients were still being followed up. Data were analyzed using repeated measures mixed effects models (MEMs) that allow the inclusion of initial differences and uncompleted repeated measures, with the assumption of data missing at random. Six-cycle results were included.Results consistently showed that patients in sunitinib group experienced statistically significantly milder kidney-related symptoms, better cancer-specific HRQoL and general health status (in social utility scores) during the study period as measured by these patient-reported outcome end points. No statistical differences between groups were found on the FACT-G physical well-being subscale or the EQ-5D VAS values.Results from MEM showed the sunitinib's benefit on HRQoL compared with IFN-alpha.To evaluate the impact of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) on health related quality of life (HRQoL) and sexual function, in patients with moderate-severe lower tract urinary symptoms (LUTS/BPH) under treatment with alpha-blockers; to study differences associated to age, urinary symptom severity and time under treatment.1580 patients diagnosed of BPH and LUTS/BPH, and in treatment with alpha-blockers were recruited in urology practices all around Spain. Socio-demographic- and clinic-data together with LUTS/HBP severity assessment (IPSS questionnaire) and responses to EQ-5D and the Sexual Function Index Questionnaire (SFI) were collected. A descriptive statistical analysis was performed, as well as test to contrast the results by age, LUTS/HBP severity and time under treatment; multiple linear regression models were adjusted for the answers to EQ-5D and SFI.Analysis database contained information of 1514 patients. Mean age (SD) was 63 (5.5) years (26.75% under 60 years), mean treatment time 1.8 (2.09) years (51.19% under one year). Mean questionnaire scores were: IPSS 17.29 (5.66) (65.85% moderate symptoms), EQ-5D 90 (14). The SFI-domains with worse scores were satisfaction and sexual drive. 52.58% of patients presented deteriorated HRQoL (IPSS-item 8). Age, symptom severity and time under treatment showed association with HRQoL and sexual function.BPH and its treatment impact negatively on HRQOL and sexual function, with a more pronounced deterioration in patients with severe LUTS/HBP, in older patients and in patients in treatment over a year.Determining the cost-effectiveness of enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) for the classical infantile form of Pompe disease (complete acid a-glucosidase deficiency-related) in two different settings: England and Colombia. Pompe disease is very rare (1:40,000 births incidence).A literature review was made and historic databases searched for National Health Service (NHS) reimbursed costs in England and by health insurers in Colombia; expert opinion was elicited. Two Markov models were constructed for comparing both countries; alive with symptoms and dead were the transition states used. Patients aged < 6 months receiving ERT were assumed to have 75 % survival rate and better health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) compared to those without treatment (0.700 HR- QoL using the EQ-5D scale).The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained was £234,307.7 for England and £109,991 for Colombia. Uncertainty about Anal HR-QoL with ERT, disease progression and cost from palliative care had the biggest impact on the ICER in both models. If ERT costs were reduced to 10,000 times per dose and HR-QoL was 0.750-0.820 ICER, then £165,000 could be attainable for England and £65,000 for Colombia. Transaction costs per case in Colombia were high.ERT was more effective than no ERT in treating infantile Pompe disease, but high levels of uncertainty still remain about survival and progression rates and QoL in the long-run. ICERs were high compared to CE thresholds. Manufacturers' ERT costs and monopoly had a major impact on Anal CEA results.The objective of this study was to assess whether the EQ-5D independently predicts all-cause mortality and first hospitalization in a generic elderly population and to evaluate the relationship between the EQ-5D "Class of problems," the EQ-5D index, the EQ-Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-VAS), and the number of hospitalizations occurring over a 2-year period.The data were collected in a longitudinal study (over 5 years) conducted on 9,644 elderly people in northern Italy with 5,256 completed questionnaires returned. Multivariate Cox's proportional hazards models were used to assess the effect of the EQ-5D questionnaire on 12 and 24 month mortality and first hospitalization risk, controlling for sociodemographic and medical covariates. Multivariate Zero-Inflated Poisson models were performed to test the association between the EQ-5D "Class of problems," the EQ-5D index and EQ-VAS and the number of hospitalizations over 2 years.The EQ-5D "Class of problems," EQ-5D index, and EQ-VAS were consistently associated with mortality and first hospitalization rates. The EQ-VAS was associated with the number of hospitalizations over 2 years, though the EQ-5D "Class of problems" and EQ-5D index were not.The EQ-5D questionnaire is a useful predictor of mortality and first hospitalization in a generic elderly population in Italy. This suggests that it would be a good instrument for evaluating the effect of social/medical actions in a population-based study.Mindful-based interventions improve functioning and quality of life in fibromyalgia (FM) patients. The aim of the study is to perform a psychometric analysis of the Spanish version of the Mindful Attention Awareness Scale (MAAS) in a sample of patients diagnosed with FM.The following measures were administered to 251 Spanish patients with FM: the Spanish version of MAAS, the Chronic Pain Acceptance Questionnaire, the Pain Catastrophising Scale, the Injustice Experience Questionnaire, the Psychological Inflexibility in Pain Scale, the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire and the Euroqol. Factorial structure was analysed using Confirmatory Factor Analyses (CFA). Cronbach's α coefficient was calculated to examine internal consistency, and the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was calculated to assess the test-retest reliability of the measures. Pearson's correlation tests were run to evaluate univariate relationships between scores on the MAAS and criterion variables.The MAAS scores in our sample were low (M = 56.7; SD = 17.5). CFA confirmed a two-factor structure, with the following fit indices [sbX2 = 172.34 (p < 0.001), CFI = 0.95, GFI = 0.90, SRMR = 0.05, RMSEA = 0.06. MAAS was found to have high internal consistency (Cronbach's α = 0.90) and adequate test-retest reliability at a 1-2 week interval (ICC = 0.90). It showed significant and expected correlations with the criterion measures with the exception of the Euroqol (Pearson = 0.15).Psychometric properties of the Spanish version of the MAAS in patients with FM are adequate. The dimensionality of the MAAS found in this sample and directions for future research are discussed.Our objective was to explore outcome and clinical changes in hand function, satisfaction in daily occupations, sleep disturbances, health and quality of life in consecutive patients after a severe or major hand injury. Our objective was also to investigate possible differences between groups according to severity of injury, presence of peripheral nerve injury and the patients' sense of coherence.A postal questionnaire, including demographic data, disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand (DASH), QoL (SF-36), EuroQol (EQ-5D VAS), hand function (VAS), satisfaction in daily occupation (SDO), was sent out 3, 6 and 12 months after injury to 45 consecutive patients with a severe or major hand injury. Sense of coherence (SOC) was evaluated at 6 months. For the descriptive study, non-parametric tests were used since almost all results were measured with ordinal scales, the study sample was small, and most variables not normally distributed.Almost all self-assessed aspects of hand function, satisfaction in daily occupations, health (DASH), and physical QoL (SF-36) improved statistically for the whole group over time. Large clinical improvement was seen for physical QoL and health, while a low or no improvement was observed for mental QoL, and cold sensitivity. Few differences were found between participants with a severe or major of hand injury or with or without a major nerve injury. No significant differences in demographic data were observed between participants with high or low SOC, but participants with low SOC showed significantly lower satisfaction in daily occupations, higher DASH scores, lower mental QoL, more sleep disturbances, and bodily pain. Correlation was found between SOC, and QoL, health and satisfaction in daily occupations.SOC had a significant influence on patients with a severe or major traumatic hand injury. Patients with lower SOC would probably benefit from extra support and help to master their daily life, indicating that sense of coherence is an indicator for future rehabilitation focus.In a double-blind, randomised phase III trial of advanced renal cell carcinoma patients, pazopanib 800mg QD (n=290) versus placebo (n=145) significantly prolonged progression-free survival (hazard ratio (HR)=0.46, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.34-0.62, p-value<0.0001), without important differences in health-related quality of life (HRQoL). This post-hoc analysis evaluated time to HRQoL deterioration and whether tumour response/stabilisation was associated with HRQoL improvement.HRQoL was assessed using EORTC QLQ-C30 and EQ-5D. Effect of pazopanib on time to ⩾20% decline from baseline in summary scores was estimated for all patients and by prior treatment. Analyses were conducted for different HRQoL deterioration thresholds. HRQoL changes were stratified by benefit and compared: complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) versus progressive disease (PD); CR/PR versus stable disease (SD), and SD versus PD.There was a trend for pazopanib patients to be less likely than placebo patients to experience ⩾20% HRQoL deterioration in EORTC-QLQ-C-30 global health status/QOL scale (HR=0.77; 95% CI 0.57-1.03, not significant). Results by prior treatment and different HRQoL deterioration thresholds were similar. Patients with CR/PR and SD experienced significantly less HRQoL deterioration than those with PD (p<0.001, p=0.0024, respectively); mean differences between patients with CR/PR and PD exceeded the pre-determined minimally important difference (MID). Differences between patients with SD and PD did not exceed pre-determined MID. Results were generally consistent across treatment and EQ-5D summary scores.Results support the favourable benefit-risk profile of pazopanib and suggest patients experiencing tumour response/stabilisation also may have better HRQoL compared to those without this response.In a randomised phase III trial, sunitinib significantly improved efficacy over interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) as first-line therapy for metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). We report the final health-related quality of life (HRQoL) results.Patients (n=750) received oral sunitinib 50 mg per day in 6-week cycles (4 weeks on, 2 weeks off treatment) or subcutaneous IFN-alpha 9 million units three times weekly. Health-related quality of life was assessed with nine end points: the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General and its four subscales, FACT-Kidney Symptom Index (FKSI-15) and its Disease-Related Symptoms subscale (FKSI-DRS), and EQ-5D questionnaire's EQ-5D Index and visual analogue scale. Data were analysed using mixed-effects model (MM), supplemented with pattern-mixture models (PMM), for the total sample and the US and European Union (EU) subgroups.Patients receiving sunitinib reported better scores in the primary end point, FKSI-DRS, across all patient populations (P<0.05), and in nine, five, and six end points in the total sample, in the US and EU groups respectively (P<0.05). There were no significant differences between the US and EU groups for all end points with the exception of the FKSI item 'I am bothered by side effects of treatment' (P=0.02). In general, MM and PMM results were similar.Patients treated with sunitinib in this study had improved HRQoL, compared with patients treated with IFN-alpha. Treatment differences within the US cohort did not differ from those within the EU cohort.Axitinib demonstrated greater progression-free survival vs sorafenib in a phase III study of previously treated patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Here, we report patient-reported kidney-specific symptoms and health status, measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) Kidney Cancer Symptom Index (FKSI) and the European Quality of Life self-report questionnaire (EQ-5D).In all, 723 patients received axitinib (starting dose 5 mg twice daily (b.i.d.)) or sorafenib (400 mg b.i.d.). The FKSI-15, including the disease-related symptoms (FKSI-DRS) subscale, was administered on day 1 before dosing, every 4 weeks and at end of treatment (EOT)/withdrawal. Statistical methods included a mixed-effects repeated-measures model.At baseline, patients in both arms had relatively high mean FSKI-15 and FKSI-DRS scores, comparable to the general US population. Subsequent on-treatment overall mean scores were similar between axitinib and sorafenib, and there was no substantial decline during treatment. Scores substantially worsened at EOT, mainly due to disease progression.Patient-reported outcomes were comparable for second-line axitinib and sorafenib and were maintained at relatively high levels while on treatment, but worsened at EOT. As duration of treatment was longer with axitinib than sorafenib, time to worsening of symptoms can be delayed longer with axitinib.The effectiveness of drug therapy in controlling angina and the resulting improvement in exercise capacity were reviewed. We performed a Medline search of published reports on ranolazine, trimetazidine, and other medicines that act metabolically. Quality of life with regards to work capacity alone was analyzed. Most reports were about trimetazidine, with strong evidence of its efficacy and tolerability. Its effect on episodes of angina, total exercise time, and time to the onset of ischemia on ECG is impressive with no negative effects found on double product (workload) and improvement in quality of life. The second most evaluated drug was ranolazine, particularly regarding quality of life. Results are similar to those with trimetazidine but are not as significant for quality of life issues. For the other drugs, L-carnitine, ribose, and dichloroacetate, accumulated experimental data provide a physiological background in which clinical trials have been started, but as yet very few patients have been enrolled. Also, studies that intended to evaluate, by echocardiography, ischemic dysfunction induced by dobutamine-atropine stress were examined; these also showed a reduction in ischemia and fewer anginal episodes, but only with trimetazidine in this regard. Taken together, these drug effects are important to ameliorate quality of life. The issue of quality of life was evaluated in specific reports, and the results of the application of validated questionnaires (SF36, 5-dimensional EuroQol Instrument, and Seattle Angina Questionnaire) attest to the positive drug effects on patients' perception of wellness, particularly with the use of trimetazidine, and less with ranolazine.To determine whether primary stenting reduces the rate of restenosis compared with balloon angioplasty alone in the endovascular treatment of long superficial femoral artery lesions; and to assess the effect of treatment on quality of life.A total of 150 patients with superior femoral artery occlusion or severe stenosis of 5-22 cm length from 17 UK centers were randomized to either primary stenting with the SMART stent or balloon angioplasty (i.e., percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, PTA). Bailout stent placement was permitted in case of inadequate result from PTA. The primary end point was restenosis measured by duplex ultrasound at 1 year. Quality-of-life assessments were performed by the EuroQol (EQ)-5D questionnaire.Mean lesion length was 123.0 mm in the stent group and 116.8 mm in the PTA group. A total of 140 (93.3 %) of 150 had total occlusions. At 12 months' follow-up, restenosis measured by Duplex ultrasound was not significantly different between the stent and PTA groups by intention-to-treat or as-treated analyses: 47.2 versus 43.5 % (p = 0.84) and 40.8 versus 46.7 % (p = 0.68), respectively. There were fewer target lesion revascularizations in patients randomized to stenting, but this did not reach statistical significance (12.5 vs. 20.8 %, p = 0.26). There was no difference in the rate of amputation. Patients in both groups reported improved quality of life.Primary stenting of long lesions in predominantly occluded superficial femoral arteries does not reduce the rate of binary restenosis compared with balloon angioplasty and bailout stenting. Both treatment strategies conferred a meaningful and sustained improvement to the quality of life of patients with severe superficial femoral artery disease.Diabetes is one of the leading causes of death in Taiwan. However, to date,no study has investigated the patient profile in this country.Therefore,this study aimed to analyse health condition,health-related quality of life and associated financial burden of people with diabetes in Taiwan.A cross-sectional survey was conducted using face-to-face interviews with patients with diabetes aged 18 years and over from four hospitals in northern Taiwan. A hypothetical scenario was designed to ascertain subjects' willingness to pay for a cure for diabetes. Ethical approval and consent were obtained from the patients and hospital ethics boards.A double-bounded dichotomous contingent valuation method and maximum log- likelihood model were employed to evaluate the cost of the disease in Taiwan. Anchoring effect .EQ-5D was employed to assess patients' health-related quality of life.The main comorbidities reported were hypertension(52.2%),cataract(34.3%)and loss of sight(24.3%).The total cost of disease borne by each patient with diabetes is US$3065.7 per year.The total cost of diabetes to society is approximately US$2.96 billion, equivalent to approximately 0.8% of the gross domestic product of Taiwan. The Bureau of National Health Insurance alleviates approximately one-third of the burden for patients.The presence of specific comorbidities for patients with diabetes does not have a significant impact on their willingness to pay for a cure. However, body mass index, health- related quality of life and ability to decrease blood glucose level were significantly associated with willingness to pay. With ever-increasing health expenditures around the world,cost containment should start with preventive approaches. Health policies regarding the prevention of diabetes should focus on the promotion of life quality and fitness of the patients.To study the outcome of a group of patients with schizophrenia receiving community home care case management programs by delineating the relationship among their psychopathology, rehospitalization rates and health-related quality of life (HRQoL).This is a cross-sectional study on HRQoL, functioning and associating factors and a retrospectivehistorical control study by comparing the frequency and duration of rehospitalization in a sample of 60 patients with schizophrenia under nonintensive case management (non-ICM) in Taiwan. All participants were assessed on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS) for psychopathology, on EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) and EQ visual analogue (EQ-VAS) for HRQoL, andGlobal Assessment of Functioning (GAF) for socio-occupational dysfunction. Other clinical characteristics are also gathered.Patients with schizophrenia treated with non-ICM had a significant reduction in admission frequency (-0.10 ± 0.36 times per year, p = 0.042) and length of inpatient stay (-27.8 ± 78.0 days per year, p = 0.008). Better EQ-5D and EQ-VAS are significantly associated with lower general psychopathology score, while better EQ-VAS is significantly associated with older age and higher negative symptoms subscale score. GAF is negatively associated with higher positive symptoms and negative symptoms subscale scores, while positively correlated with a greater reduction in number and frequency of admission.Non-ICM can help to decrease rehospitalization of home care patients. HRQoL and functioning can be assessed by the three perspectives we used, and each measure was correlated to different dimensions of patient psychopathology. It will be better if we include baseline and post-intervention PANSS scores, HRQoL and functioning as outcome indicators.The concept of "adaptation" has been proposed to account for differences between individual and societal valuations of specific health states in patients with chronic diseases. Little is known about psychological indices of adaptational capacity, which may predict differences in individual and societal valuations of health states. We investigated whether such differences were partially explained by personality traits in chronic disease patients.Analysis of baseline data of randomized controlled trial.Three hundred seventy patients with chronic disease.The NEO-five factor inventory measure of personality, EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) societal-based, and the EQ visual analogue scale individually-based measures of health valuation.Regression analyses modeled Dev, a measure of difference between the EQ-Visual Analogue Scale and EQ-5D, as a function of personality traits, sociodemographic factors, and chronic diseases. Individual valuations were significantly and clinically higher than societal valuations among patients in the second and third quartile of conscientiousness (Dev = 0.08, P = 0.01); among covariates, only depression (Dev = -0.04, P = 0.046) was also associated with Dev.Compared with societal valuations of a given health state, persons at higher quartiles of conscientiousness report less disutility associated with poor health. The effect is roughly twice that of some estimates of minimally important clinical differences on the EQ-5D and of depression. Although useful at the aggregate level, societal preference measures may systematically undervalue the health states of more conscientious individuals. Future work should examine the impact this has on individual patient outcome evaluation in clinical studies.Systematic review.To identify, describe, and evaluate common outcome measures in patients with chronic low back pain (CLBP).The treatment of CLBP has been associated with multiple clinical challenges. Further complicating this is the myriad of outcome scores used to assess treatment of CLBP. These scores have been used to examine different domains of patient satisfaction and quality of life in the literature. Critical assessment of the frequency, parity, and the quality of these outcomes are essential to improve our understanding of CLBP.A systematic review of the English-language literature was undertaken for articles published from January 2001 through December 31, 2010. Electronic databases and reference lists of key articles were searched to identify measures used to evaluate outcomes in six different domains in patients with CLBP. The titles and abstracts of the peer-reviewed literature of LBP were searched to determine which of these measures were most commonly reported in the literature and which have been validated in populations with CLBP.We identified 75 outcome measures cited to evaluate CLBP. Twenty-nine of these outcome measures were excluded because of only a single citation leaving 46 measures for the evaluation. The most commonly used functional outcomes were the Oswestry Disability Index, Roland Morris Disability Index, and range of motion. For pain, the Numeric Pain Rating Scale, Brief Pain Inventory, Pain Disability Index, McGill Pain Questionnaire, and visual analog scale were most commonly cited. For psychosocial function, the Fear Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire, Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia, and Beck Depression Inventory were most commonly used. For generic quality of life, short form 36, Nottingham Health Profile, short form 12, and Sickness Impact Profile were the most common measures. For objective measures, the work status/return to work, complications or adverse events, and medications used were the most commonly cited. For preference-based measures, the Euro-Quol 5 dimensions and short form 6 dimensions were most commonly cited. The validity, reliability, responsiveness, universality, and potential proprietary requirements are summarized for each.Outcome measures should be routinely assessed in patients with CLBP. The choice of appropriate outcome measure should be influenced by the study objectives and design, as well as properties of the particular measure within the context of CLBP.Recommendation 1: When selecting the appropriate outcome measures for clinical or research purposes, consider domains that best measure what are most important to patients. Measures that are valid, reliable, and responsive to change should be considered first. Other considerations include the number of items required (especially in the context of multiple measures), whether the measure is validated in the relevant language, and the associated costs or fees. Strength: Strong Recommendation 2: Domains of greatest importance include pain, function, and quality of life. If cost utilization is a priority, then preference-based measures should be considered. For pain, we recommend the VAS and NRPS because of their ease of administration and responsiveness. For function, we recommend the ODI and RMDQ. The SF-36 and its shorter versions are most commonly used and should be considered if quality of life is important. If cost utility is important, consider the EQ-5D or SF-6D. Psychosocial tests are best used as screening tools prior to surgery because of their lack of responsiveness. Complications should always be assessed as a standard of clinical practice. Return to work and medication use are complicated outcome measures and not recommended unless the specific study question is focused on these domains. Consider staff and patient burden when prioritizing one's battery of measures.To compare characteristics of patients and outcomes after elective surgery in independent sector treatment centres (ISTCs) and NHS providers.Follow-up study with outcomes reported by patients three to six months after surgery.25 ISTCs and 72 NHS providers in England. Population Consecutive patients undergoing hip or knee replacement (5671 in ISTCs and 14,292 in NHS), inguinal hernia repair (640 and 2023, respectively), or surgery for varicose veins (248 and 1336, respectively).Symptoms and disability reported by patients (Oxford hip and knee scores on a 48 point scale; Aberdeen varicose vein questionnaire) and quality of life (EuroQol EQ-5D score).Patients in ISTCs were healthier than those in NHS providers, had less severe preoperative symptoms, and were more affluent, though the differences were small. With adjustment, patients undergoing joint replacements in NHS providers had poorer outcomes: difference of -1.7 (95% confidence interval -2.5 to -0.9) on the Oxford hip score and -0.9 (-1.6 to -0.2) on the Oxford knee score. They more often reported complications: odds ratio 1.3 (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 1.5) for hip and 1.4 (1.2 to 1.6) for knee. There were no significant differences in outcomes after surgery for hernia or varicose veins, except that NHS patients more often reported poor results after hernia repair (1.4, 1.0 to 1.9) and additional surgery after varicose vein surgery (2.8, 1.2 to 6.8).Patients undergoing surgery in ISTCs were slightly healthier and had less severe conditions than those undergoing surgery in NHS providers. Some outcomes were better in ISTCs, but differences were small compared with the impact ISTCs could have on the provision of elective services.Evaluate the reliability and validity of the Medical Outcomes Study Short-Form version 2 (SF-12v2) in the 2003-2004 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS).Data were collected in the self-administered mail-out questionnaire and face-to-face interviews of the MEPS (n = 20,661). Internal consistency and test-retest reliability and construct, discriminate, predictive and concurrent validity were tested. The EQ-5D, perceived health and mental health questions were used to test construct and discriminate validity. Self-reported work, physical and cognitive limits tested predictive validity and number of chronic conditions assessed concurrent validity.Both Mental Component Summary Scores (MCS) and Physical Component Summary Scores (PCS) were shown to have high internal consistency reliability (alpha > .80). PCS showed high test-retest reliability (ICC = .78) while MCS demonstrated moderate reliability (ICC = .60). PCS had high convergent validity for EQ-5D items (except self-care) and physical health status (r > .56). MCS demonstrated moderate convergent validity on EQ-5D and mental health items (r > .38). PCS distinguish between groups with different physical and work limitations. Similarly, MCS distinguished between groups with and without cognitive limitations. The MCS and PCS showed perfect dose response when variations in scores were examined by participant's chronic condition status.Both component scores showed adequate reliability and validity with the 2003-2004 MEPS and should be suitable for use in a variety of proposes within this database.Separate health-related quality of life (HRQL) instruments exist for asthma and rhinitis. The Rhinasthma questionnaire, originally developed in Italian, is a unique measure designed for use where both conditions coexist.We sought to assess the performance and validity of a new adaptation of the Rhinasthma questionnaire for use in English-speaking populations.We analyzed cross-sectional data from an ongoing study of adults with asthma and rhinitis (n = 450), asthma alone (n = 75), or rhinitis alone (n = 20). Subjects were administered an English translation of the original 30-item Rhinasthma questionnaire. Health status measures simultaneously assessed include the Short Form (SF)-12, EuroQol (EQ)-5D, and Marks Asthma Quality-of-Life.Variable cluster analysis of the original 30-item instrument identified 5 discrete item clusters corresponding to the following domains: nasal (5 items), eye (4 items), respiratory (5 items), activity restriction (9 items), and treatment burden (5 items). Two other items were removed because of poor item-cluster correlations. Subjects with concomitant asthma and rhinitis had greater HRQL impairment, as measured by the Rhinasthma, than subjects with either asthma or rhinitis alone. The Rhinasthma correlated significantly (P < .05) with the SF-12, EQ-5D, and Marks Asthma Quality-of-Life in the anticipated direction consistent with the underlying constructs. In multiple logistic regression, poorer Rhinasthma HRQL was associated with significantly (P < .05) increased odds of both asthma- and rhinitis-related disability even after taking into account physical health status as measured by the SF-12.The 28-item English adaptation of Rhinasthma performs well in assessing HRQL in patients with asthma, rhinitis, or both conditions combined.To examine the association between the side effects of oral anti-diabetic drugs (OAD) and self-reported mental health and quality of life among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).An observational, cross-sectional multicenter study with a retrospective medical chart review was conducted at 16 medical centers from around China. The T2DM patients were followed-up and treated with OAD alone prior to the index visit from January to September 2007. All subjects were ≥30 years old at the time of T2DM diagnosis and had received monotherapy or combination therapy of OAD for at least 6 months. Health-related quality of life was measured by the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and Hypoglycemia Fear Survey (HFS)-II.The symptoms of hypoglycemia were reported by 41.8% (n=203) of participants, and 19.2% (n=93) experienced weight gain. For those reporting hypoglycemia, the scores were higher for HFS-II [7.00 (2.00-19.00) vs 0.00 (0.00-7.00), P<0.01] and lower for EQ-5D (0.90±0.12 vs 0.93±0.13, P=0.003) than those without hypoglycemic symptoms. According to the multivariate linear regression analysis, the symptoms of hypoglycemia were positively correlated with HFS-II (β=5.78, P<0.01) and negatively with EQ-5D (β=-0.04, P<0.05) after adjusting for patient and disease characteristics.There is a high possibility of hypoglycemic risks among T2DM patients on OAD therapy. The self-reported hypoglycemia is associated with health-related quality of life and hypoglycemic fear. They may have an impact on the long-term prognosis.The purpose of this study was to describe gender differences in self-reported health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) and to examine whether differences are explained by sociodemographic and socioeconomic status (SES) differentials between men and women.Data were from four US nationally representative surveys: US Valuation of the EuroQol EQ-5D Health States Survey (USVEQ), Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS), National Health Measurement Study (NHMS) and Joint Canada/US Survey of Health (JCUSH). Gender differences were estimated with and without adjustment for sociodemographic and SES indicators using regression within and across data sets with SF-6D, EQ-5D, HUI2, HUI3 and QWB-SA scores as outcomes.Women have lower HRQoL scores than men on all indexes prior to adjustment. Adjusting for age, race, marital status, education and income reduced but did not remove the gender differences, except with HUI3. Adjusting for marital status or income had the largest impact on estimated gender differences.There are clear gender differences in HRQoL in the United States. These differences are partly explained by sociodemographic and SES differentials.The purpose of the study was to examine whether gender differences in summary health-related quality of life (HRQoL) are due to differences in specific dimensions of health, and whether they are explained by sociodemographic and socioeconomic (SES) variation.The National Health Measurement Study collected cross-sectional data on a national sample of 3648 black and white noninstitutionalized adults ages 35 to 89 years. Data included the Short Form 36-Item survey, which yielded separate Mental and Physical Component Summary scores (MCS and PCS, respectively), and five HRQoL indexes: Short Form 6 dimension, EuroQol 5 dimension, the Health Utilities Indexes Mark 2 and 3, and the Quality of Well-Being Scale Self-Administered form. Structural equation models were used to explore gender differences in physical, psychosocial, and pain latent dimensions of the 5 indexes, adjusting for sociodemographic and SES indicators. Observed MCS and PCS scores were examined in regression models to judge robustness of latent results.Men had better estimated physical and psychosocial health and less pain than women with similar trends on the MCS and PCS scores. Adjustments for marital status or income reduced gender differences more than did other indicators. Adjusting results for partial factorial invariance of HRQoL attributes supported the presence of gender differentials, but also indicated that these differences are impacted by dimensions being related to some HRQoL attributes differently by gender.Men have better estimated health on 3 latent dimensions of HRQoL-physical, psychosocial, and pain-comparable to gender differences on the observed MCS and PCS scores. Gender differences are partly explained by sociodemographic and SES factors, highlighting the role of socioeconomic inequalities in perpetuating gender differences in health outcomes across multiple domains. These results also emphasize the importance of accounting for measurement invariance for meaningful comparison of group differences in estimated means of self-reported measures of health.Preference-weighted health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) indexes produce a summary score from discrete health states determined by questions falling into several attributes, such as pain and mobility. Values of HRQoL are used alongside other health outcomes to monitor the health of populations.The purpose of this study was to examine among US adults, the underlying factor structure of HRQoL attribute scores across 5 indexes of HRQoL: EuroQol-5 Dimension, Health Utilities Index Mark 2, Health Utilities Index Mark 3, Short Form-6 Dimension, and Quality of Well-Being Scale Self-Administered form.The National Health Measurement Study surveyed a nationally representative sample of 3844 noninstitutionalized adults aged 35 to 89 years residing in the continental US. Simultaneous data on all 5 indexes were collected cross-sectionally from June 2005 to August 2006. Exploration of underlying dimensions of HRQoL was done by categorical exploratory factor analysis of HRQoL indexes' attribute scores. Item response theory was applied to explore the amount of information HRQoL attributes contribute to the underlying latent dimensions.Three main dimensions of HRQoL emerged: physical, psychosocial, and pain. Most HRQoL index attributes contributed to the physical or psychosocial dimension. The 3 dimensions were correlated: 0.47 (physical and psychosocial), 0.57 (physical and pain), 0.46 (psychosocial and pain). Some HRQoL index attributes displayed relatively more unique variance: HUI3 hearing, speech, and vision, and some contributed to more than 1 dimension The identified factor structure fit the HRQoL data well (Comparative Fit Index = 0.98, Tucker-Lewis Index = 0.98, and Root Mean Square Error of Approximation = 0.042).The attributes of 5 commonly used HRQoL indexes share 3 underlying latent dimensions of HRQoL, physical, psychosocial, and pain.Despite the high prevalence of subthreshold depression in patients with type 2 diabetes, evidence on cost-effectiveness of different therapy options for these patients is currently lacking.Within-trial economic evaluation of the diabetes-specific cognitive behaviour therapy for subthreshold depression. Patients with diabetes and subthreshold depression are randomly assigned to either 2 weeks of diabetes-specific cognitive behaviour group therapy (n = 104) or to standard diabetes education programme only (n = 104). Patients are followed for 12 months. During this period data on total health sector costs, patient costs and societal productivity costs are collected in addition to clinical data. Health related quality of life (the SF-36 and the EQ-5D) is measured at baseline, immediately after the intervention, at 6 and at 12 months after the intervention. Quality adjusted life years (QALYs), and cumulative costs will be estimated for each arm of the trial. Cost-effectiveness of the diabetes-specific cognitive behaviour group therapy will be analysed from the perspective of the German statutory health insurance and from the societal perspective. To this end, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in terms of cost per QALY gained will be calculated.Some methodological issues of the described economic evaluation are discussed.The trial has been registered at the Clinical Trials Register (NCT01009138).Spinal manipulation and acupuncture can be helpful in reducing the symptoms of musculoskeletal (MSK) pain. Both approaches are currently recommended by NICE as treatment options for patients with persistent low back pain. However, there has been no previous evaluation of a GP service using them together for MSK pain. The purpose of this study was to evaluate acceptability and outcomes for an osteopathy and acupuncture service (delivered by complementary therapy practitioners) for patients with MSK problems provided within a General Practice.Patients were asked to complete a questionnaire before and after their course of treatment. Outcome measures included the Bournemouth Questionnaire (measuring MSK problems), EuroQoL-5D (measuring quality of life), medication use, physical activity and general well-being. Non-parametric tests were used to compare pre- and post- treatment variables. Qualitative data, regarding participants' views on the service, were collected from patients via a service survey and healthcare professionals via interviews. Qualitative data were analysed using thematic analysis.123 adults with MSK problems were referred into the service (79 female and 44 male, mean age 49 years). Complete patient questionnaire data sets (pre- and post- treatment) were available for 102 participants; 91 completed a service survey. All healthcare professionals involved in the service participated in interviews including all seven GPs and the administration manager at the practice, as well as the three acupuncture/osteopathy practitioners. Patient outcomes: comparisons between pre and post-treatment revealed a statistically significant improvement in MSK pain (p < 0.0001) and quality of life (p < 0.0001), and a statistically significant reduction in medication use (p < 0.0001). Qualitative analysis found that patients reported improvements in their MSK pain, mobility, other physical health conditions, well-being and self-management of their MSK problem.Acceptability of the service: overall patients and healthcare professionals were satisfied with the service and its provision within the Practice. Patients reported wanting increased appointment availability and flexibility, and more sessions. Complementary therapy practitioners reported finding the high number of referrals of chronic patients challenging, and wanting increased communication with GPs.Provision of acupuncture and osteopathy for MSK pain is achievable in General Practice. A GP surgery can quickly adapt to incorporate complementary therapy provided key principles are followed.While a French language version of the EQ-5D exists, to date, there has been no French value set to accompany it. The objective of our study was then to derive the French TTO value set of the EQ-5D.A total of 452 respondents aged over 18 were recruited who were representative of the French population with regard to age, gender, and socio-professional group. The direct valuation of 24 health states was first obtained by Time Trade-Off (TTO), and the negative TTO values were bounded using the monotonic transformation. Several alternative model specifications were investigated to estimate the values for all 243 states in the EQ-5D descriptive system. Only the best fitting model is presented in this paper. The analysis was conducted at an individual level to make the maximum use of the available data, and we estimated mixed models with random intercept. Models were compared through the Akaike information criterion (AIC), the mean absolute error (MAE), and the Pearson correlation coefficient between the observed and the predicted values of each model.After exclusion, 443 respondents took part in the study. The best fitting model included the same variables as the N3-model used in UK.This study provides the French value set of the EQ-5D based on the stated preferences of the French general public facilitating cost-effectiveness analysis.The devastating impact of lymphedema on cancer survivors' quality of life has prompted consideration of several changes in medical and surgical care. Unfortunately, our understanding of the benefits gained from these approaches relative to their cost remains limited. This study was designed to estimate utilities for lymphedema and characterize how utilities differ between subgroups defined by lymphedema etiology and distribution.A consecutive sample of 236 subjects with lymphedema seen at a lymphedema clinic completed both a time trade-off (TTO) exercise and the Euroqol 5D. Responses were adjusted in multivariate regression models for demographic factors, comorbidities, and lymphedema severity/location.Most participants (167 of 236, 71%) had lymphedema as a consequence of cancer treatment; 123 with breast cancer and upper extremity involvement. Mean TTO utility estimates were consistently higher than Euroqol 5D estimates. Unadjusted TTO (0.85; standard deviation [SD], 0.21) and Euroqol 5D (0.76; SD, 0.18) scores diminished with increasing lymphedema stage and patient body mass index (BMI). Adjusted utility scores were lowest in patients with cancer-related lower extremity lymphedema (TTO=0.82; SD, 0.04 and Euroqol 5D=0.80; SD, 0.03). Breast cancer patients also had lower adjusted Euroqol 5D scores (0.80; SD, 0.02).Lymphedema-associated utilities are in the range of 0.80. Lower utilities are observed for patients with higher lymphedema stages, elevated BMI, and cancer-related lymphedema. Greater expenditures for the prevention and treatment of cancer-related lymphedema are warranted.To assess the efficacy and safety of botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) injection in patients suffering from intractable periorbital pain after acute angle closure glaucoma (AACG).In this prospective randomized intervention study, 19 patients suffering from periorbital pain after an AACG attack were injected with BoNT-A or placebo for pain relief. Patients were assessed on days 1, 2, 7, 14, 30, 60, and 90. The main outcomes were mean change of visual analog rating scale (VARS) and index scores measured through a quality-of-life questionnaire (EQ-5D), and changes in the visual analog scale (VAS), all of which were assessed at each visit. A secondary outcome was the frequency and nature of adverse events and the number of patients who withdrew from the study as a result.In the treatment group (n=10), the mean index score of EQ-5D and VAS changed significantly from the placebo group (by 0.299 and 2.61, respectively) from day 2 (P<0.01). The VARS of EQ-5D also disclosed significant changes from day 2 (17, P<0.01). In addition, efficacy was maintained mainly between days 2 and 60 but declined slightly by day 90. The most frequently reported treatment-related adverse events in the treatment and placebo groups were local tenderness (21%), subcutaneous hemorrhage (10.5%), and conjunctivitis (10.5%). No severe adverse events were reported during the study or follow-up period.BoNT-A is effective and well tolerated for the treatment of periorbital pain after an AACG attack. Its effects may be maintained for 3 months.Conflicting reports on prevalence of RLS exist in Asian countries due to differences in sampling strategies and assessment instruments. We assessed the prevalence, correlates, quality of life, and psychiatric comorbidity of RLS in South Korea.Cross-sectional nationwide survey.Nationally representative sample of 6,509 Korean adults aged 18-64.Face-to-face interviews based on the Korean translation of the four features of RLS defined by the International RLS Study Group (IRLSSG), the Korean version of Composite International Diagnostic Interview (K-CIDI), and EuroQol (EQ-5D) were conducted for all participants. The weighted prevalence of RLS in South Korea was 0.9% (men, 0.6%; women, 1.3%). Subjects with RLS had a lower quality of life according to EQ-5D than those without RLS. Adjusted odds ratio for lifetime diagnosis of DSM-IV major depressive disorder (2.57, 95% confidence interval [1.33, 4.96]), panic disorder (18.9 [4.72, 75.9]) and posttraumatic stress disorder (3.76 [1.32, 10.7]) suggest strong association between RLS and DSM-IV depression and anxiety disorders.Prevalence of RLS estimated based on the IRLSSG diagnostic criteria is substantially lower in South Korea than in Western countries. Differences in culture and risk factors that affect the expression of RLS may vary across the countries.Strategies to improve primary care in the Canadian Primary Care Reform include integrating different professionals to the medical team.This demonstration project explores the perceived impact on doctors and patients, of having family doctors and psychologists work together.Two family practices of Eastern Ontario, CanadaTwo board certified psychologists (one per practice) were integrated in the practices for 12 months. Psychologists conducted assessments, consultations and short-term treatments, as well as knowledge-transfer sessions for doctors. Outcome measures included referral patterns, patient outcomes, patient and provider satisfaction as well as doctors' billing.Three hundred and seventy-six participants received psychological care; most were women (68%) and between the ages of 25-64 (67%). Anxiety and depression were the most prevalent diagnoses. Reasons for referral included: psychological treatment (70%); emotional support and counselling (35%); clarification of diagnosis and case conceptualization (25%). Referrals could be for more than one reason. After intervention, 60% of patients had improvement on the outcome questionnaire-45 (OQ-45). Quality of life as measured by the EuroQol-5D also improved (P < 0.001). Over 77% of patients reported increased confidence in handling their problems after treatment. Compared with their family doctor, patients felt the psychologist had more time and was better trained (75%) Doctors felt mental health problems were diagnosed more rapidly, patient care improved as well as their own knowledge of psychological management and treatment. Doctors felt it freed up their time and improved working conditions. Audit of the doctors' billing showed reduction in doctors' mental health billing.Having an on-site psychologist was highly satisfactory for patients and providers, resulting in improved patient care and outcomes.This study evaluates determinants, expectations, association with quality of life (QOL) and doctor's awareness of Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) use in Singapore cancer patients.We interviewed 316 patients visiting the Cancer Centre of the National University Hospital on behaviour, attitudes and expectations towards CAM and assessed QOL via Euroqol Questionnaire (EQ-5D). Medical information was obtained from oncologists.One hundred and seventy-three patients (55%) reported CAM use after cancer diagnosis. Chinese ethnicity, tertiary education, age <65 years and previous CAM use were independent predictors of CAM use. Fifty-one per cent of CAM users informed their doctors about their use and 15% of doctors reported to be aware of CAM use in these patients. Thirty-seven per cent believed CAM to be equally or more effective than conventional cancer therapies and 78% expected at least basic knowledge about CAM from their oncologists. Twenty-fi ve per cent of patients reported concurrent use of oral CAM and chemotherapy, of which oncologists were unaware in 86% of cases. CAM users had higher EuroQol utility scores than non-CAM users (0.79 versus 0.73, respectively, P = 0.03), in particularly those aged >or=65 years and those with stage IV disease.Singapore cancer patients show high prevalence of CAM use, high expectations regarding its effectiveness and doctors' knowledge on CAM and many use it concurrently with chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Since oncologists are generally unaware of CAM use in their patients, doctor-patient communication on CAM use needs to be improved. The association of CAM use and higher QOL scores in some subgroups deserves further exploration.Physical disability and psychologic morbidity are frequent and important complications of severe trauma injury with serious consequences for long-term health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Little prospective data exist, however, in a global trauma population on the risk factors for poor HRQOL.The CONTROL trial was a prospective, randomized, double-blinded, multicenter, placebo-controlled trial conducted from August 2005 to September 2008. HRQOL was assessed 3 months after injury using the Polytrauma Outcome Chart (Glasgow Outcomes Scale, Short Form 36, European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D), and Trauma Outcome Profile). Multivariate stepwise regression analysis identified predictors of poor HRQOL.Three hundred forty-seven (72%) patients completed at least one HRQOL instrument. Three percent had an EQ-5D score <0 (worse than death); 92% had a score <0.87 (average score in the general population). All HRQOL instruments identified physical functioning and activities of daily living as the dimensions of health most significantly affected by trauma injury. Mental functioning was also significantly affected according to the Trauma Outcome Profile. Independent predictors of poor HRQOL were higher age, female gender, extremity injury, blunt injury, intensive care unit stay >3 days, repeated nonadherence to transfusion guidelines, and inability to work postinjury.Three months after severe trauma injury, survivors report very poor HRQOL. Physical wellbeing is generally more negatively affected than mental wellbeing. A trauma-specific HRQOL instrument reveals more diverse mental health problems than generic instruments. In a global trauma population, postinjury HRQOL is predicted by demographic and socioeconomic characteristics, type of injury, and treatment received.Estimates of psoriatic arthritis (PsA) prevalence among psoriasis patients vary widely (5-40%). The time to development of PsA in patients with plaque psoriasis also remains unclear.To examine whether length of time since diagnosis of psoriasis affects risk of developing PsA, and to assess differences in quality of life (QoL), work-related issues, comorbidities and healthcare resource utilization (HCRU) for patients with PsA vs. psoriasis.This large cross-sectional observational study was conducted in the UK, Italy, France, Spain and Germany in 2006. Dermatologists who actively treated patients with psoriasis recruited 10 consecutive patients with psoriasis. Presence of PsA, body surface area (BSA) affected with psoriasis and HCRU were recorded; patients completed EUROQoL (EQ5D) and employment disadvantages questionnaires.Patients with psoriasis (n = 1560) included 126 with PsA. Ninety per cent of these patients with PsA were seen by dermatologists who involved a rheumatologist in the care of their patients with PsA. Survival analysis indicated that the incidence of PsA among psoriasis patients remained constant (74 per 1000 person-years), while the prevalence increased with time since diagnosis of psoriasis, reaching 20.5% after 30 years. In addition, those with high BSA currently affected by psoriasis were more likely to have developed PsA (P < 0.028). PsA patients reported reduced QoL compared with psoriasis patients (EQ5D score: 0.56 vs. 0.82: P < 0.0005), as well as more work problems. PsA patients were more likely to be hospitalized (0.27 +/- 0.84 vs. 0.14 +/- 0.71 per year; P < 0.0005) and have additional comorbidities than those without PsA.The incidence of PsA was constant after initial diagnosis of psoriasis, leading to a higher prevalence of concomitant PsA over time. PsA is associated with decreased QoL and increased work-related problems, HCRU and comorbidities. Dermatologists should screen for PsA in their patients, especially long-standing patients who did not initially present with PsA.For cost-utility analysis, analysts need a measure that summarizes health-status utilities in a single index of health-related quality of life (HR-QOL). It is common to find in clinical studies that only an HR-QOL profile measure such as the SF-36 is included, but not the summary HR-QOL index. Therefore, the economist's usual practice is to reprocess the profile data into a single index format. Several 'after-market' tools are available to convert the SF-36 or SF-12 into a single form with or without utility-weighting metric property. However, there has been no consensus with regard to a regression method that should be recommended for such a mapping task.To report on the performance of different regression methods that have previously been applied to the conversion of SF-12 data in the analysis of a single common dataset. The mapping between the SF-12 and EQ-5D is the focus.The data were adopted from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey 2003 where 19 678 adults completed both EQ-5D and SF-12 questionnaires. Four econometric techniques, namely ordinary least squares (OLS), censored least absolute deviation, multinomial logit model and two-part model regressions were investigated together with two main types of model specifications: item-based and summary score-based. The performance of each examined model was judged by various criteria, including its estimated mean, the size of mean absolute error and the number of errors.Among four compared econometric techniques, OLS regression was the most accurate model in estimating the group mean. Models with item-based model specification performed better than those with summary score-based regardless of the chosen econometric technique. Nevertheless, the accuracy of OLS deteriorates in older and less healthy subgroups. The results also suggested that the two-part model, which addresses the heterogeneity issue, performs better in these vulnerable subgroups.None of the mapping methods included in the current study are suitable for estimating at the individual level. The methodology exemplified here has wider applicability and might just as readily be applied to other members of the SF family or indeed to other profile measures of HR-QOL. However, it is recommended that a preference-based, single index measure of HR-QOL should be included in the clinical studies for the purpose of economic evaluation.Many aspects of valuations are poorly understood, and the size and composition of health states used in valuation studies vary widely. Our aims were to investigate the impact of the selection of a subset of EQ-5D health states in generating a set of visual analog scale (VAS)-based values. Our aims were to investigate the optimal number of health states, the sample size required per health state, and which combinations of health states are required to establish a EQ-5D VAS value set.Data were drawn from a United Kingdom (UK) general population postal survey in which all health states defined by EQ-5D were evaluated using VAS. We used a simulation approach to address each question, and the performance of each estimation model was assessed by the average value of the mean absolute errors.Despite the constraint of the small sample size in the study dataset, the results suggest that the optimal number of states for a valuation study is 32, 100 observations per health state were sufficient, and multiple subsets of health states were feasible.Selecting health states not included in the "Measurement and Valuation of Health" dataset in valuation studies is quite specifically encouraged. However, it remains prudent to ensure that the selection of health states covers as wide a range of severity as possible. Setting the number of observations per health state to 150 might allow for correction of any errors in data collection or processing. The extent to which the results of this study based on VAS valuation data can be safely generalized to the design of time tradeoff valuation studies remains an open question.We sought to analyze and compare the problems and technical difficulties related to surgical intervention, patient satisfaction, and quality of life after primary and secondary rhinoplasties.A total of 168 cases of rhinoplasty were grouped as primary or secondary according to the patient's history of rhinoplasty. The type of nasal deformity, the surgical approach, and the difficulty of the surgery were recorded. The levels of patient satisfaction and the quality of life were assessed before and after the operation with the Rhinoplasty Outcomes Evaluation (ROE) and European Quality of Life-5 Dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaires. A quantitative and statistical analysis was performed.Thirty-three patients had secondary rhinoplasty, and 135 patients had primary rhinoplasty. Relatively high rates of saddle nose deformity, crooked nose, and tip asymmetry were observed in the secondary rhinoplasty group. The preoperative and postoperative scores on the ROE and EQ-5D questionnaires demonstrated statistically significant differences in both the primary and secondary rhinoplasty groups. The comparison of postoperative change between the primary and secondary rhinoplasty groups did not demonstrate a statistically significant difference.The surgical difficulty of secondary rhinoplasty is approximately twice that of primary rhinoplasty because of the high rate of major deformities. However, the levels of patient satisfaction and improvements in quality of life are similar after primary and secondary rhinoplasties.This study aimed at deriving a preference valuation set for EQ-5D health states from the general Flemish public in Belgium. A EuroQol valuation instrument with 16 health states to be valued on a visual analogue scale was sent to a random sample of 2,754 adults. The initial response rate was 35%. Eventually, 548 (20%) respondents provided useable valuations for modeling. Valuations for 245 health states were modeled using a random effects model. The selection of the model was based on two criteria: health state valuations must be consistent, and the difference with the directly observed valuations must be small. A model including a value decrement if any health dimension of the EQ-5D is on the worst level was selected to construct the social health state valuation set. A comparison with health state valuations from other countries showed similarities, especially with those from New Zealand. The use of a single preference valuation set across different health economic evaluations within a country is highly preferable to increase their usability for policy makers. This study contributes to the standardization of outcome measurement in economic evaluations in Belgium.Frailty is common in older age, and is associated with important adverse health outcomes including increased risk of disability and admission to hospital or long-term care. Exercise interventions for frail older people have the potential to reduce the risk of these adverse outcomes by increasing muscle strength and improving mobility.The Home-Based Older People's Exercise (HOPE) trial is a two arm, assessor blind pilot randomised controlled trial (RCT) to assess the effectiveness of a 12 week exercise intervention (the HOPE programme) designed to improve the mobility and functional abilities of frail older people living at home, compared with usual care. The primary outcome is the timed-up-and-go test (TUGT), measured at baseline and 14 weeks post-randomisation. Secondary outcomes include the Barthel Index of activities of daily living (ADL), EuroQol Group 5-Dimension Self-Report Questionnaire (EQ-5D) quality of life measure and the geriatric depression scale (GDS), measured at baseline and 14 weeks post-randomisation. We will record baseline frailty using the Edmonton Frail Scale (EFS), record falls and document muscle/joint pain. We will test the feasibility of collection of data to identify therapy resources required for delivery of the intervention.The HOPE trial will explore and evaluate a home-based exercise intervention for frail older people. Although previous RCTs have used operationalised, non-validated methods of measuring frailty, the HOPE trial is, to our knowledge, the first RCT of an exercise intervention for frail older people that includes a validated method of frailty assessment at baseline.ISRCTN: ISRCTN57066881.This study sought to assess burnout and its relation to pain, disability, mood and health-related quality of life in a group of patients with chronic whiplash-associated disorders (WAD). Forty-five patients with chronic WAD (≥3 months) referred to a multidisciplinary rehabilitation centre were included. A questionnaire covering data on background and lifestyle, the Shirom Melamed Burnout Questionnaire, pain intensity, the Neck Disability Index, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and the EQ-5D was filled in before the first visit to the clinic. A high proportion of burnout as measured using the Shirom Melamed Burnout Questionnaire was found in the patient group (87%). Burnout correlated moderately with present pain intensity, neck disability, depression and health-related quality of life. The results indicate the possible clinical importance of burnout in relation to chronic WAD and the need for further studies including a larger study population and a longitudinal study design.The Diabetes Care Protocol (DCP) combines task delegation, intensification of diabetes treatment and feedback. It reduces cardiovascular risk in Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) patients. This study determines the effects of DCP on patient-important outcomes.A cluster randomized, non-inferiority trial, by self-administered questionnaires in 55 Dutch primary care practices: 26 practices DCP (1699 patients), 26 usual care (1692 patients). T2DM patients treated by their general practitioner were included. Main outcome was the 1-year between-group difference in Diabetes Health Profile (DHP-18) total score.DHP-18 subscales, general perceived health [Medical Outcomes Study 36-Items Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), Euroqol 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) and Euroqol visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS)], treatment satisfaction (Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire; DTSQ status) and psychosocial self-efficacy (Diabetes Empowerment Scale Short Form; DES-SF). Per protocol (PP) and intention-to-treat (ITT) analyses were performed: non-inferiority margin Delta=-2%. At baseline 2333 questionnaires were returned and 1437 1 year thereafter.Comparing DCP with usual care, DHP-18 total score was non-inferior: PP -0.88 (95% CI -1.94 to 0.12), ITT -0.439 (95% CI -1.01 to 0.08), SF-36 'health change' improved: PP 3.51 (95% CI 1.23 to 5.82), ITT 1.91 (95% CI 0.62 to 3.23), SF-36 'social functioning' was inconclusive: PP-1.57 (95% CI-4.3 to 0.72), ITT-1.031 (95% CI-2.52 to -0.25). Other DHP and SF-36 scores were inconsistent or non-inferior. DHP-18 'disinhibited eating' was significantly worse in PP analyses. For EQ-5D/EQ-VAS, DTSQ and DES-SF, no significant between-group differences were found.DCP does not seem to influence health status negatively, therefore diabetes care providers should not shrink from intensified treatment. However, they should take possible detrimental effects on 'social functioning' and 'disinhibited eating' into account.The aim of the study was to explore levels of doctor-patient concordance during the making of decisions regarding HIV treatment switching and stopping in relation to patient health-related outcomes.Adult patients attending five HIV clinics in the United Kingdom were requested to complete the study questionnaire, which included a Concordance Scale, and measures of symptoms [Memorial Symptom Assessment Short Form (MSAS) index], quality of life (EuroQol), satisfaction, adherence and sexual risk behaviour. Clinical health measures (HIV viral load and CD4 cell count) were also obtained. A total of 779 patients completed the questionnaire, giving a response rate of 86%; of these 779 patients, 430 had switched or stopped their HIV treatment and were thus eligible for inclusion. Of these patients, 217 (50.5%) fully completed the Concordance Scale.Concordance levels were high (88% scored between 30 and 40 on the scale; score range 10-40). Higher concordance was related to several patient outcomes, including: better quality of life (P=0.003), less severe and burdensome symptom experience (lower MSAS-physical score, P=0.001; lower MSAS-psychological score, P=0.008; lower MSAS-global distress index score, P=0.011; fewer symptoms reported, P=0.007), higher CD4 cell count (at baseline, P=0.019, and 6-12 months later, P=0.043) and greater adherence (P=0.029).High levels of doctor-patient concordance in HIV treatment decision-making are associated with greater adherence and better physical and psychological functioning. More research is needed to establish a causal relationship between concordance and these outcomes.The aim of this study is to determine the effects of a combination treatment with etanercept and spa rehabilitation versus etanercept alone on function, disability and quality of life in a group of patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Sixty patients with AS underwent etanercept as suggested by ASAS/EULAR recommendations. As the clinical and laboratory conditions improved, 30 patients accepted the proposal of coupling the medical therapy with a 7-day rehabilitation program in a thermal baths centre; the remaining 30 subjects continued to take the biologic agent alone. The comparisons between the 2 groups were made after 3 and 6 months. The primary outcome was an improvement in BASFI. The secondary outcome was an improvement in the visual analogic scale of EuroQol (EQ-5Dvas). After 6 months a statistically significant improvement in BASFI (p < 0.05) and EQ-5DVAS (p < 0.05) scores was observed in both groups. The mean change in EQ-5DVAS value showed a statistically significant difference in favour of the combination therapy group versus the monotherapy group (22 vs 32, p < 0.05). A therapeutic regimen combining etanercept with an intensive rehabilitation program contributes to disability reduction and ameliorates quality of life for AS patients.To explore the feasibility of intravenous magnesium administration as a potential candidate intervention for a large size trial in Complex Regional Pain Syndrome Type 1 (CRPS 1).Randomized clinical trial.Outpatient pain clinic.Ten CRPS 1 patients.Eight patients received 70 mg/kg magnesium sulphate infusions in 4 hours for 5 days. For blinding purposes, 2 patients received equal amount NaCl 0.9% solutions (data not analyzed or presented). Interventions were accompanied by standardized physical therapy.Pain was assessed using an 11-point Box scale (three times daily for a week) and the McGill Pain Questionnaire. Skin sensitivity was measured with the Semmes Weinstein Monofilaments, (other) impairments with the Impairment Level Sumscore. In addition, functional limitations (Radboud Skills Questionnaire, questionnaire rising and sitting down) and quality of life (Short Form-36 [SF-36], EuroQol) were evaluated. Assessments were performed at baseline, 1, 3, 6, and 12 weeks after intervention.Mild systemic side effects were experienced and the infusions were locally well tolerated. Pain was significantly reduced at all follow up compared with baseline (T1: P = 0.01, T3: P = 0.04, T6: P = 0.02, T12: P = 0.02). McGill sensory subscale improved significantly at T1 (number of words chosen: P = 0.03 and pain rating index: P = 0.03). Impairment level (P = 0.03) and quality of life (EuroQol P = 0.04, SF-36 physical P = 0.01) were significantly improved at T12. No improvement was found for skin sensitivity and functional limitations.Intravenous magnesium significantly improved pain, impairment and quality of life and was well tolerated. The results of this pilot study are encouraging and suggest that magnesium IV as a treatment in CRPS 1 should be further explored in a large size formal trial design.To identify factors contributing to reduced quality of life and increased caregiver strain in an older population referred to a community rehabilitation team and to recommend service delivery models.Analytical cross-sectional study arising from baseline assessments from 107 subjects drawn from a randomised controlled trial of community rehabilitation service delivery models.A community rehabilitation team based in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.Primary outcome variables include quality of life (EQ-5D & VAS) and Carer Strain Index. Predictor variables include participation in functional activities, history of falls, number of medications, number of co-morbidities, depression, environmental hazards, physical function and nutrition. Association between variables assessed using linear regression.Major factors contributing to reduced quality of life were having reduced participation in daily activities, depression, and having poor vision. Having poor nutrition and no longer driving also contributed to poor quality of life. The major factor contributing to increased caregiver strain was reduced participation in daily activities by the older person.Community rehabilitation services working with older populations must adopt models of care that screen for and address a wide range of factors that contribute to poor quality of life and caregiver strain.To investigate patient-reported health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in data collected from a multinational randomized double-blind controlled trial comparing oral mesalazine (4 g) + topical mesalazine enema (1 g) to oral mesalazine alone (4 g).HRQoL was collected using the EQ-5D at baseline and weeks 2, 4 and 8. The EQ-5D assesses mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Scores from each dimension were reported individually, and converted into a weighted health state which reflects an individual's perception of their health condition.At week 4, a significant HRQoL improvement was observed for patients on mesalazine enemas compared to placebo enemas, with EQ-5D scores of 0.906 and 0.838, respectively (p < 0.05). Mesalazine enema was found to reduce the probability of impairment at week 4 for mobility (p = 0.049) and anxiety/depression (p = 0.048), and was of borderline significance for pain/discomfort (p = 0.053); there was also an increased probability of influencing HRQoL changes for mobility (p < 0.005), usual activities (p < 0.005), pain/discomfort (p < 0.005) and anxiety/depression (p < 0.005), based on reported HRQoL problems at baseline.Including 1 g mesalazine enemas with 4 g oral mesalazine significantly improved HRQoL in patients with active ulcerative colitis. The improvement in QoL of patients with UC preceded clinical remission, and this underlines the importance of including QoL instruments in clinical studies.Heart failure (HF) is a major clinical problem and, despite advances in both pharmacological and device therapy, the mortality remains high and quality of life poor. Over the last decade there has been growing interest in using phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitors in HF associated with group 2 pulmonary hypertension (PH), with benefits reported on pulmonary haemodynamic and functional status in single-centre trials Methods The Sildenafil in Heart Failure (SilHF) trial is a randomized, placebo-controlled multinational trial designed to assess efficacy and tolerability of PDE-5 inhibition with sildenafil (target dose 40 mg three times per day) in 210 patients with HF, New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II or III, and evidence of group 2 PH. The co-primary endpoints are patient global assessment and the 6 min walk test. Secondary endpoints include NYHA functional class and the quality of life tools Euro QoL 5D and the Kansas City questionnaire. Patients will be followed up for 6 months.The authors hypothesize that PDE-5 inhibition can improve exercise capacity and symptoms with acceptable tolerability in patients with HF and group 2 PH.To establish a conceptual model that links arthritis, functional disability in activities of daily living, and quality of life (QoL).A multicentre, cross-sectional, observation study was performed. The location of the arthritis (presence/absence) was recorded. Disability was measured using the Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index and the QoL determined using the EQ-5D-3 Level questionnaire. The relationship between the arthritis, disability, and the QoL was evaluated using the structural equation model (SEM).965 patients with arthritis (mean age=64 years, with 75% females). Arthritis: mean areas affected: 2.8. Areas most frequently affected: knees (67%); lumbar spine (60%) and cervical spine (45%). QoL: The majority of patients did not mention serious problems in the five domains assessed. Disability: «other activities» (mean=1.2); «reach» (mean=1.1) and «walking» (mean=1.0) were the categories that demonstrated greater disability. The SEM showed arthritis, disability and QoL as associated latent variables. Although 92% of the QoL explained the disability, only 5% of the disability was due to the presence/absence of arthritis. The global model that describes arthritis as a cause of disability, and disability was affecting the QoL, had a reasonable goodness of fit (CMIN/DF=5.42; RMR=0.026; RMSEA=0.069).Functional disability can explain the decrease in QoL. In theory, arthritis is closely related with disability and QoL, but the model did not mange to fully explain this link. As statistical techniques required good measurement models to correctly determine relationships, conventional medical records seem to be insufficient for this purpose. Other valid measurements of arthritis are needed to provide tests of its direct effect on disability and QoL.Preventive home visits (PHVs) are considered a promising intervention to improve health and independent functioning of the elderly whilst reducing health care costs. This systematic review focuses on cost-effectiveness of PHVs, analyzing randomized controlled trials evaluating incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in fall prevention interventions.Based on an online search (PubMed) and bibliographic findings in the eligible articles, five studies providing relevant information were reviewed.While three studies indicate cost-effectiveness, one delivered no statistically significant results, and one proved cost-effectiveness only for a subgroup of the study sample.Cost-effectiveness of PHVs appears to depend on careful adaptation of particular measures, for certain settings in special environments for designated patients and disease patterns, on a case-by-case basis. Starting points for further research are the components of the economic evaluation, the setting, personnel and measures of the intervention, as well as the careful selection and analysis of the study sample and its subgroups. A uniform follow-up time, standardized cost measurement as well as the use of standardized denominators like quality adjusted life years (based on the EQ-5D questionnaire) could build a foundation for comparable results.In the health sector, the EQ-5D has been widely used to evaluate health-related quality of life, mainly due to its simplicity, robustness and plasticity in calculating years of life adjusted for quality.However, its model has remained stable over time and knowledge of the influence of such biodemographical variables as age and gender has not been incorporated. This information, along with the well-known non-linear behavior of the VAS, which measures the self-concept of the 'General State of Health', forms the basis for a new model, which we present here from a sample of patients who were operated on for chronic low back pain.These are obtained using multiple regression analysis are consistent in terms of goodness-of-fit given that this new model is able to explain 91.3% of the self-concept of the 'general state of health'.Above leads to an improvement of 21.6% compared to the available models more robust and meets most of the restrictions for this type of statistical modeling.To conduct a pilot trial of yoga for the treatment of chronic low back pain (LBP) to inform the feasibility and practicality of conducting a full-scale trial in the UK; and to assess the efficacy of yoga for the treatment of chronic low back pain.A pragmatic randomised controlled trial was undertaken comparing yoga to usual care.Twenty participants who had presented to their GP with chronic low back pain in the previous 18 months were recruited via GP records from one practice in York, UK.Twenty patients were randomised to either 12 weekly 75-min sessions of specialised yoga plus written advice, or usual care plus written advice. Allocation was 50/50.Recruitment rate, levels of intervention attendance, and loss to follow-up were the main non-clinical outcomes. Change as measured by the Roland and Morris disability questionnaire was the primary clinical outcome. Changes in the Aberdeen back pain scale, SF-12, EQ-5D, and pain self-efficacy were secondary clinical outcomes. Data were collected via postal questionnaire at baseline, 4 weeks, and 12 weeks follow-up.Of the 286 patients identified from the GP database, 52 (18%) consented and returned the eligibility questionnaire, out of these 20 (6.9%) were eligible and randomised. The total percentage of patients randomised from the GP practice population was 0.28%. Ten patients were randomised to yoga, receiving an average of 1.7 sessions (range 0-5), and 10 were randomised to usual care. At 12 weeks follow-up data was received from 60% of patients in the yoga group and 90% of patients in the usual care group (75% overall). No significant differences were seen between groups in clinical outcomes apart from on the Aberdeen back pain scale at four weeks follow-up where the yoga group reported significantly less pain.This pilot study provided useful data and information to inform the design and development of a full-scale trial of yoga for CLBP in the UK. A key finding is the calculation of GP practice total list size required for patient recruitment in a full-scale trial, and the need to implement methods to increase class attendance.The value of a health state is typically described relative to the value of an optimal state, specifically as a ratio ranging from unity (equal to optimal health) to negative infinity. Incorporating potentially infinite values is a challenging issue in the econometrics of health valuation. In this paper, we apply a directional statistics approach based on the assumption of wavering preference. Unlike ratio statistics, directional statistics are based on polar coordinates (angle, radius). The range of angles is bounded between 45 degrees (unity) and negative 90 degrees (i.e., negative infinity); therefore, mean angles are well behaved and negate the impetus behind arbitrary data manipulations. Using time trade-off (TTO) responses from the seminal Measurement and Valuation of Health study, we estimate 243 EQ-5D health state values by minimizing circular variance with and without radial weights. For states with published values greater than zero (i.e., better-than-death), the radially weighted estimates are nearly identical to the published values (Mean Absolute Difference 0.07; Lin's rho 0.94). For worse-than-death states, the estimates are substantially lower than the published values (Mean Absolute Difference 0.186; Lin's rho 0.576). For the worst EQ-5D state (33333), the published value is -0.59 and the directional estimate is -1.11. By taking a directional statistics approach, we circumvent problems inherent to ratio statistics and the systematic bias introduced by arbitrary data manipulations. The predictions suggest that published estimates overvalue severe states. This paper examines TTO responses; however, it may be extended to all forms of health valuation.There is rising interest in eliciting health state valuations using rankings. Due to their relative simplicity, ordinal measurement methods may offer an attractive practical alternative to cardinal methods, such as time trade-off (TTO) and visual analog scale (VAS). In this article, we explore alternative models for estimating cardinal health state values from rank responses in a unique multicountry database. We highlight an estimation challenge pertaining to health states just below perfect health (the "nonoptimal gap") and propose an analytic solution to ameliorate this problem.Using a standardized protocol developed by the EuroQol Group, rank, VAS, and TTO responses were collected for 43 health states in 8 countries: Slovenia, Argentina, Denmark, Japan, Netherlands, Spain, United Kingdom, and United States, yielding a sample of 179,431 state responses from 11,483 subjects. States were described using the EQ-5D system, which allows for 3 different possible levels on 5 different dimensions of health. We estimated conditional logit and probit regression models for rank responses. The regressions included 17 health state attribute variables reflecting specific levels on each dimension and counts of different levels across dimensions. This flexible specification accommodates previously published valuation models, such as models applied in the United Kingdom and United States. In addition to fitting standard conditional logit and probit models, which assume equal variance across health states (homoscedasticity), we examined a heteroscedastic probit model that assumes no variance for the 2 points anchoring the scale ("optimal health" and "dead") and relaxes the equal-variance assumption for all other states. Rank-based predictions for the 243 unique states defined by the EQ-5D system were compared with predictions from conventional linear models fitted to TTO and VAS responses.By construction, the TTO and VAS models assume no variance around the anchoring states of optimal health and dead. Mimicking this assumption in the probit rank models helps dissolve the nonoptimal gap. For all other states, variances in TTO and VAS were negatively associated with mean values, which contradict the assumption of homoscedasticity. Estimated health state values from the heteroscedastic probit model for the ranking data were highly correlated with predictions from both TTO and VAS models for the 243 EQ-5D states. Between VAS and rank-based estimates, Lin's rho, a measure of agreement, was over 0.98 with a mean absolute difference of 0.028. Corresponding measures of agreement between rank and TTO estimates were 0.96 and 0.12, which is similar to the agreement between VAS and TTO.Rank-based valuation techniques, which offer advantages of flexibility, generalizability, and ease of administration, may be attractive substitutes for TTO and VAS in the measurement of societal values for health outcomes.In the original US valuation study of EQ-5D states, all worse-than-dead time trade-off responses (26% of the sample) were divided by 39 to increase the QALY estimates. This transformation has no theoretical justification and motivates this re-examination. Using the publically available dataset, we compared three alternative random utility models: instant (IRUM), angular (ARUM), and episodic (ERUM) models. Each leads to a distinct econometric estimator: mean ratio, ratio of means, and coefficient, respectively. IRUM suggests that 203 of the 243 EQ-5D states are worse-than-dead, which has little face validity compared to ARUM and ERUM (42 and 3 WTD states). ARUM and ERUM estimates are proportionally related such that losses in QALYs are approximately 37% larger under ARUM than ERUM. Compared to ERUM, economic evaluations using ARUM estimates emphasize quality of life, and this difference may influence policy decisions. Either ERUM or ARUM values sets are recommended over the original, transformed set.To quantify the relationship between Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) disability and arterial stiffness in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).A consecutive series of 114 patients with RA but without overt arterial disease, aged 40-65 years, were recruited from rheumatology clinics. A research nurse measured blood pressure (BP), arterial stiffness (heart rate-adjusted augmentation index), fasting lipids, glucose, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and rheumatoid factor (RF). A self-completed patient questionnaire included HAQ, damaged joint count, EuroQol measure of health outcome, and Godin physical activity score. Multiple linear regression (MLR) adjusted for age, sex, smoking pack-years, cholesterol, mean arterial BP, physical activity, daily fruit and vegetable consumption, arthritis duration, ESR, and RA criteria.Mean age was 54 years (81% women) with a median HAQ of 1.13 (interquartile range 0.50; 1.75). Median RA duration was 10 years, 83% were RF-positive, and median ESR was 16 mm/h. Mean arterial stiffness was 31.5 (SD 7.7), BP 125/82 mm Hg, cholesterol 5.3 mmol/l, and 24% were current smokers. Current therapy included RA disease-modifying agents (90%), prednisolone (11%), and antihypertensive therapy (18%). Arterial stiffness was positively correlated with HAQ (r = 0.42; 95% CI 0.25 to 0.56). On MLR, a 1-point increase in HAQ disability was associated with a 2.8 increase (95% CI 1.1 to 4.4; p = 0.001) in arterial stiffness. Each additional damaged joint was associated with a 0.17 point increase (95% CI 0.04 to 0.29; p = 0.009) in arterial stiffness. The relationship between EuroQol and arterial stiffness was not statistically significant.In patients with RA who are free of overt arterial disease, higher RA disability is associated with increased arterial stiffness independently of traditional cardiovascular risk factors and RA characteristics.To estimate the effect, if any, of manual chest physiotherapy (MCP) administered to patients hospitalised with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation on both disease-specific and generic health-related quality of life. To compare the health service costs for those receiving and not receiving MCP.A pragmatic, randomised controlled trial powered for equivalence. It was not possible to blind participants, clinicians or research staff to study arm allocation during the intervention.Four UK hospitals in Norwich, Great Yarmouth, King's Lynn and Liverpool.526 participants aged 34-91 years were recruited between November 2005 and April 2008; of these, 372 provided evaluable data for the primary outcome. All persons hospitalised with COPD exacerbation and evidence of sputum production on examination were eligible for the trial providing there were no contraindications to performing MCP.Participants were allocated to either MCP or no MCP on an intention-to-treat (ITT) basis. However, active cycle of breathing techniques (ACBT) was used in both arms. Participants allocated to the intervention were guided to perform ACBT while the physiotherapist delivered MCP. Participants allocated to the control arm received instruction on ACBT only.The primary outcome was COPD-specific quality of life, measured using the St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) at 6 months post randomisation. The European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) questionnaire was used to calculate the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gain associated with MCP compared with no MCP. Secondary physiological outcome measures were also used.Of the 526 participants, 261 were allocated to MCP and 264 to control, with 186 participants evaluable in each arm. ITT analyses indicated no significant difference at 6 months post randomisation in total SGRQ score [adjusted effect size (no MCP - MCP) 0.03 (95% confidence interval, CI -0.14 to 0.19)], SGRQ symptom score [adjusted effect size 0.04 (95% CI -0.15 to 0.23)], SGRQ activity score [adjusted effect size -0.02 (95% CI -0.20 to 0.16)] or SGRQ impact score [adjusted effect size 0.02 (95% CI -0.15 to 0.18)]. The imputed ITT and per-protocol results were similar. No significant differences were observed in any of the outcome measures or subgroup analyses. Compared with no MCP, employing MCP was associated with a slight loss in quality of life (0.001 QALY loss) but lower health service costs (cost saving of 410.79 pounds). Based on these estimates, at a cost-effectiveness threshold of lambda = 20,000 pounds per QALY, MCP would constitute a cost-effective use of resources (net benefit = 376.14 pounds). There was, however, a high level of uncertainty associated with these results and it is possible that the lower health service costs could have been due to other factors.In terms of longer-term quality of life the use of MCP did not appear to affect outcome. However, this does not mean that MCP is of no therapeutic value to patients with COPD in specific circumstances. Although the cost-effectiveness analysis suggested that its use was cost-effective, much uncertainty was associated with this finding and it would be difficult to justify providing MCP therapy on the basis of cost-effectiveness alone. Future research should include evaluation of MCP for patients with COPD producing high volumes of sputum, and an evaluation of the effectiveness of ACBT in COPD exacerbation.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN13825248.Although cancer-specific Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) are commonly included in randomized clinical trials or other prospective non-randomized clinical studies, it is rare that preference-based instruments are used that allow the calculation of a utility weight suitable for estimating quality-adjusted life-years gained.To develop a mapping algorithm to transform the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire responses into EQ-5D derived utilities.Retrospective data analysis of a multicentre, multicountry prospective clinical trial in breast cancer patients.Regression analysis of individual pairs of EQ-5D and QLQ-C30 scores.A model that explained 80% of the variance was developed to estimate EQ-5D Utilities from QLQ-C30 scores at individual level. From this reliable group level means and deviations can be derived.Mapping from QLQ-C30 scores to EQ-5D-derived utilities when only QLQ-C30 data are available has been shown to be possible with good accuracy. Validation of the proposed algorithm in other external clinical datasets should be encouraged.Clinical studies suggest that foot pain may be problematic in one-third of patients in early disease. The Foot Health Status Questionnaire (FHSQ) was developed and validated to evaluate the effectiveness of conservative (orthoses, taping, stretching) and surgery interventions. Despite this fact, there are few validated instruments that measure foot health status in Spanish. Thus, the primary aim of the current study was to translate and evaluate psychometrically a Spanish version of FHSQ.A cross-sectional study was designed in a university community-based podiatric clinic located in south of Spain. All participants (n = 107) recruited consecutively completed a Spanish version of FHSQ and EuroQoL Health Questionnaire 5 dimensions, and 29 participants repeated these same measures 48 h later. Data analysis included test-retest reliability, construct and criterion-related validity and factor analyses.Construct validity was appropriate with moderate-to-high corrected item-subscale correlations (α = ≥0.739) for all subscales. Test-retest reliability was satisfactory (ICC > 0.932). Factor analysis revealed four dimensions with 86.6% of the common variance explained. The confirmatory factor analysis findings demonstrated that the proposed structure was well supported (comparative fit index = 0.92, standardized root mean square = 0.09). The Spanish EuroQoL 5D score negatively correlated with the FHSQ pain (r = -0.445) and positively with general foot health and function (r = 0.261-0.579), confirming criterion-related validity.The clinimetric properties of the Spanish version of FHSQ were satisfactory.To compare the EQ-5D, SF-6D, and SF-12 in terms of their capacity to discriminate between groups defined by relevant socio-demographic and health characteristics in a general population survey.Data were obtained from the 2006 Catalan Health Interview Survey, a representative sample (n = 4,319) of the general population of Catalonia (Spain). Effect sizes (ES) and Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves were calculated to evaluate the instruments' capacity to distinguish between groups based on socio-demographic variables, recent health problems, perceived health, psychological distress, and selected chronic conditions.All instruments showed a similar discriminative capacity between groups based on socio-demographic variables, recent medical visit (ES = 0.47-0.55), activity limitations (ES = 0.92-0.98), perceived health (ES = 0.97-1.33), and psychological well-being (ES = 1.17-1.57). Effect sizes between respondents with and without any of fourteen selected chronic conditions were large (0.76-1.04) for 4, moderate (0.55-0.74) for 8, and small (0.17-0.39) for two on the EQ-5D index. A similar pattern was observed for the SF-12 but ES were predominantly moderate (7 conditions) or small (6 conditions) on the SF-6D.The EQ-5D and SF-12 were largely comparable in estimating the health burden of chronic conditions, recent health problems, and social inequalities. The SF-6D was less sensitive than the EQ-5D index and SF-12, particularly for physical chronic conditions.Most corticosteroid injections into the joint are guided by the clinical examination (CE), but up to 70% are inaccurately placed, which may contribute to an inadequate response. The aim of this study was to investigate whether ultrasound (US) guidance improves the accuracy and clinical outcome of joint injections as compared with CE guidance in patients with inflammatory arthritis.A total of 184 patients with inflammatory arthritis and an inflamed joint (shoulder, elbow, wrist, knee, or ankle) were randomized to receive either US-guided or CE-guided corticosteroid injections. Visual analog scales (VAS) for assessment of function, pain, and stiffness of the target joint, a modified Health Assessment Questionnaire, and the EuroQol 5-domain questionnaire were obtained at baseline and at 2 weeks and 6 weeks postinjection. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein level were measured at baseline and 2 weeks. Contrast injected with the steroid was used to assess the accuracy of the joint injection.One-third of CE-guided injections were inaccurate. US-guided injections performed by a trainee rheumatologist were more accurate than the CE-guided injections performed by more senior rheumatologists (83% versus 66%; P = 0.010). There was no significant difference in clinical outcome between the group receiving US-guided injections and the group receiving CE-guided injections. Accurate injections led to greater improvement in joint function, as determined by VAS scores, at 6 weeks, as compared with inaccurate injections (30.6 mm versus 21.2 mm; P = 0.030). Clinicians who used US guidance reliably assessed the accuracy of joint injection (P < 0.001), whereas those who used CE guidance did not (P = 0.29).US guidance significantly improves the accuracy of joint injection, allowing a trainee to rapidly achieve higher accuracy than more experienced rheumatologists. US guidance did not improve the short-term outcome of joint injection.The quality of life (QL) of advanced gastric cancer patients receiving irinotecan, folinic acid and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (IF arm) or cisplatin with 5-FU (CF arm) is presented.Patients with measurable or evaluable advanced gastric cancer received IF weekly for 6/7 weeks or CF q4 weeks. QL was assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 at baseline, subsequently every 8 weeks until progression and thereafter every 3 months until death. The QL data were analysed using several statistical methods including summary measures and pattern-mixture modelling.A total of 333 patients were randomised and treated (IF 170, CF 163). The time-to-progression for IF and CF was 5.0 and 4.2 months (P = 0.088), respectively. The overall compliance rates for QL questionnaire completion were 60 and 56% in the IF and CF arms, respectively. Significant treatment differences were observed for the physical functioning scale (P = 0.024), nausea\vomiting (P = 0.001) and EQ-5D thermometer (P = 0.020) in favour of the IF treatment arm.There was a trend in favour of IF over CF in time-to-progression. The IF group also demonstrated a better safety profile than CF and a better QL on a number of multi-item scales, suggesting that IF offers an alternative first-line platinum-free treatment option for advanced gastric cancer.Data on quality of life beyond 2 years after intensive care discharge are limited and we aimed to explore this area further. Our objective was to quantify quality of life and health utilities in the 5 years after intensive care discharge.A prospective longitudinal cohort study in a University Hospital in the UK. Quality of life was assessed from the period before ICU admission until 5 years and quality adjusted life years calculated.300 level 3 intensive care patients of median age 60.5 years and median length of stay 6.7 days, were recruited. Physical quality of life fell to 3 months (P = 0.003), rose back to pre-morbid levels at 12 months then fell again from 2.5 to 5 years after intensive care (P = 0.002). Mean physical scores were below the population norm at all time points but the mean mental scores after 6 months were similar to those population norms. The utility value measured using the EuroQOL-5D quality of life assessment tool (EQ-5D) at 5 years was 0.677. During the five years after intensive care unit, the cumulative quality adjusted life years were significantly lower than that expected for the general population (P < 0.001).Intensive care unit admission is associated with a high mortality, a poor physical quality of life and a low quality adjusted life years gained compared to the general population for 5 years after discharge. In this group, critical illness associated with ICU admission should be treated as a life time diagnosis with associated excess mortality, morbidity and the requirement for ongoing health care support.This article reports on a study that used contact lenses to simulate the effects of a visual impairment caused by age-related macular degeneration (ARMD). The primary objective was to examine the feasibility of using this method of simulation. A secondary objective was to compare the results from this experiment with those obtained from ARMD patients (n = 209) using generic preference-based measures (Health Utilities Index 3 (HUI3) and EUROQOL 5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) and patient time trade-off (TTO).Utility values were elicited from healthy participants (n = 108) for three ARMD states simulated using contact lenses.A significant relationship was found between visual acuity and TTO values elicited from our sample population (n = 108). It was stronger than that found for HUI3, EQ-5D, and own TTO values from patients (n = 209). Our sample values informed by the experience of simulation were found to be significantly different from values from patient TTO and generic preference-based measures obtained from patients for the same level of visual impairment. Sociodemographic characteristics did not significantly affect results, although baseline TTO utility values were positively associated with TTO values for simulated states. Nevertheless, the patient population was significantly older than the sample population.ARMD has a major impact on our sample values TTO health state values. Differences across four visual health severity groups appear larger than those found for a generic preference-based measure and patient TTO values. For conditions that are difficult to describe and imagine, simulation methods may offer an additional tool when combined with usual methods of description for obtaining better informed general population preferences.Increasing severity in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) may result in poorer health-related quality of life (HRQoL), reduced work productivity and increased resource utilisation. This study investigated the impact of RA severity on HRQoL and healthcare resource utilisation among RA patients in Brazil.Data were drawn from an observational cross-sectional study of consulting RA patients undertaken in November-December 2007. Rheumatologists (n=55) provided information for 526 RA patients, 521 of whom also completed patient self-completion (PSC) questionnaires. Physicians subjectively rated each patient's RA as mild, moderate or severe. The PSC included the Work Productivity and Activity Impairment questionnaire (WPAI), Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index (HAQ-DI) and HAQ-Pain score, EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) and Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-Fatigue. Data on the number of hospitalisations and consultations to healthcare professionals in the past 12 months and RA drug therapy class received were also collected.Patients with severe RA had significantly impaired health and work status compared to those with mild/moderate disease. Overall work and activity impairment rose with increasing disease severity. Health status deteriorated as disease severity increased with worsening disability, pain, fatigue, quality of life and perceived general health status. Hospitalisation rate and frequency of physician consultations were also significantly greater among those with severe RA.In Brazil, moderate to severe RA is associated with significant functional disability and morbidity. Disease severity should be considered when treating patients with RA. More aggressive treatment strategies may be needed to effectively manage patients with moderate to severe RA.In addition to medical treatment, deep brain stimulation has become an alternative therapeutic option in advanced Parkinson's disease. High initial costs of surgery have to be weighted against long-term gains in health-related quality of life. The objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of deep brain stimulation compared with long-term medical treatment. We performed a cost-utility analysis using a lifetime Markov model for Parkinson's disease. Health utilities were evaluated using the EQ-5D generic health status measure. Data on effectiveness and adverse events were obtained from clinical studies, published reports, or meta-analyses. Costs were assessed from the German health care provider perspective. Both were discounted at 3% per year. Key assumptions affecting costs and health status were investigated using one-way and two-way sensitivity analyses. The lifetime incremental cost-utility ratio for deep brain stimulation was €6700 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and €9800 and €2500 per United Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale part II (motor experiences of daily living) and part III (motor examination) score point gained, respectively. Deep brain stimulation costs were mainly driven by the cost of surgery and of battery exchange. Health status was improved and motor complications were reduced by DBS. Sensitivity analysis revealed that battery life time was the most influential parameter, with the incremental cost-utility ratio ranging from €20,000 per QALY to deep brain stimulation dominating medical treatment. Deep brain stimulation can be considered cost-effective, offering a value-for-money profile comparable to other well accepted health care technologies. Our data support adopting and reimbursing deep brain stimulation within the German health care system.Chronic pelvic pain is a common condition with a major effect on health-related quality of life, work productivity, and health care use. Operative interruption of nerve trunks in the uterosacral ligaments by laparoscopic uterosacral nerve ablation (LUNA) is a treatment option for patients with chronic pelvic pain.To assess the effectiveness of LUNA in patients with chronic pelvic pain.Randomized controlled trial of 487 women with chronic pelvic pain lasting longer than 6 months without or with minimal endometriosis, adhesions, or pelvic inflammatory disease, who were recruited to the study by consultant gynecological surgeons from 18 UK hospitals between February 1998 and December 2005. Follow-up was conducted by questionnaires mailed at 3 and 6 months and at 1, 2, 3, and 5 years.Bilateral LUNA or laparoscopy without pelvic denervation (no LUNA); participants were blinded to the treatment allocation.The primary outcome was pain, which was assessed by a visual analogue scale. Data concerning the 3 types of pain (noncyclical pain, dysmenorrhea, and dyspareunia) were analyzed separately as was the worst pain level experienced from any of these 3 types of pain. The secondary outcome was health-related quality of life, which was measured using a generic instrument (EuroQoL EQ-5D and EQ-VAS).After a median follow-up of 69 months, there were no significant differences reported on the visual analogue pain scales for the worst pain (mean difference between the LUNA group and the no LUNA group, -0.04 cm [95% confidence interval {CI}, -0.33 to 0.25 cm]; P = .80), noncyclical pain (-0.11 cm [95% CI, -0.50 to 0.29 cm]; P = .60), dysmenorrhea (-0.09 cm [95% CI, -0.49 to 0.30 cm]; P = .60), or dyspareunia (0.18 cm [95% CI, -0.22 to 0.62 cm]; P = .40). No differences were observed between the LUNA group and the no LUNA group for quality of life.Among women with chronic pelvic pain, LUNA did not result in improvements in pain, dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, or quality of life compared with laparoscopy without pelvic denervation.controlled-trials.com Identifier: ISRCTN41196151.To describe health-related quality of life (HRQoL), pain, clinical outcomes and treatment patterns in French patients with depression treated by general practitioners and psychiatrists.Factors Influencing Depression Endpoints Research (FINDER) is a European longitudinal observational, naturalistic, multicentre study to determine the HRQoL (SF-36 and EQ-5D) and to assess outcomes of depression and anxiety (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale [HADS]), and pain (VAS) in a population of depressed patients initiating antidepressant treatment. Clinical diagnosis of depression was based on physician's clinical judgment. Physicians decided at their own discretion and clinical practice to initiate pharmacological treatment for depression. Adult patients with a first or new episode of depression were enrolled between May 2004 and September 2005, and followed up for 6 months. Across Europe, 437 physicians observed 3468 patients.In France, 606 patients (approximately 17% of the whole sample) were enrolled by 57 psychiatrists and 46 general practitioners. These patients were (mean ± SD) 45.6 ± 13.0 years old, 69% female and 39% having had a previous depressive episode in the last 2 years. According to the patient-rated HADS score greater or equal to 11, most patients (75%) were classified as cases of depression as well as cases of anxiety (84%); 51% of patients rated their overall pain severity (based on VAS cut-off of 30 mm) as moderate/severe, with 65% of these patients reporting no medical explanation for their pain. The majority (81%) of the patients were prescribed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI). During the 6-month follow-up, the majority of the patients (73%) remained on the same antidepressant at the same dose during the course of treatment. Between baseline and 6-month endpoint, French patients improved their mean scores (SD) on the SF-36 physical score by+3.5 (9.0) (P<0.001) and mental score by+20.6 (14.2) (P<0.001); on the EQ-5D Health State Index by+0.37 (0.32) (P<0.001) and the EQ-5D VAS by+32.3 (25.0) (P<0.001); on the HADS depression score by-8.1 (6.0) (P<0.001) and HADS anxiety score by-6.9 (5.0) (P<0.001). Patients with moderate/severe pain at baseline improved their overall pain on a mean VAS score by-34.1 (28.7) (P<0.001).More than half of the French patients enrolled in the study experienced pain associated with depression. During follow-up, patients improved all of their outcome measurements (physical and mental SF-36 scores, depression and anxiety HADS scores, pain VAS, EQ-5D Health State Index and VAS) and most patients remained on the same antidepressant at the same dose.Our research explored whether two preference-based outcome measures (EuroQol EQ-5D and ICECAP-O) are complements or substitutes in the context of the Vancouver Falls Prevention Clinic for seniors.The EQ-5D and ICECAP-O were administered once at 12 months post first clinic attendance. We report descriptive statistics for all baseline characteristics collected at first clinic visit and primary outcomes of interest. We ascertain feasibility by reporting item completion rates for the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O. Contingency tables for a priori assertions between the ICECAP-O and EQ-5D were used to demonstrate whether unique or similar aspects of benefit were captured. We used exploratory factor analysis, to ascertain the number of unique underlying latent factors associated with the attributes assessed by the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O.We report data on 215 seniors who attended the Vancouver Falls Prevention Clinic who had a mean age of 79.3 (6.2) years. The item completion rate was 99 % for the EQ-5D and 92 % for the ICECAP-O. The two contingency tables detailed few discrepancies. The results of the exploratory factor analysis indicate that the two instruments are tapping into distinct factors that are complementary.Our study suggests that the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O provide complementary information.We estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness of a once-weekly or twice-weekly resistance training intervention compared with balance and tone classes in terms of falls prevented and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. Both resistance training interventions were more likely to save health care resource money and offer better health outcomes for falls prevention than balance and tone classes.This study aims to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of a once-weekly or twice-weekly resistance training intervention compared with twice-weekly balance and tone classes in terms of falls prevented and QALYs gained.Economic evaluation was conducted concurrently with a three-arm randomized controlled trial including 155 community-dwelling women aged 65 to 75 years, Mini Mental State Examination ≥24, and visual acuity 20/40 or better. Participants received the once-weekly resistance training (n = 54), the twice-weekly resistance training (n = 51) or the twice-weekly balance and tone (the comparator) classes (n = 50) for 1 year. Measurements included the number of falls for each participant, healthcare resource utilization, and associated costs over 9 months; health status was assessed using the EQ-5D and SF-6D to calculate QALYs.Based on the point estimates from our base case analysis, we found that both once- and twice-weekly resistance training groups were less costly (p < 0.05) and more effective than twice-weekly balance and tone classes. The incremental QALYs assessed using the SF-6D were 0.003 for both the once- and twice-weekly resistance training groups, compared with the twice-weekly balance and tone classes. The incremental QALYs assessed using the EQ-5D were 0.084 for the once-weekly and 0.179 for the twice-weekly resistance training groups, respectively, compared with the twice-weekly balance and tone classes.An individually tailored resistance training intervention delivered once or twice weekly provided better value for money for falls prevention than balance and tone classes.Our research sought to understand how falls risk, cognitive function, and daily function are associated with health related quality of life (using the EuroQol-5D) and quality of life (using the ICECAP-O) among older adults with mobility impairments.The EQ-5D and ICECAP-O were administered at 12 months post first clinic attendance at the Vancouver Falls Prevention Clinic. We report descriptive statistics for all baseline characteristics collected at first clinic visit and primary outcomes of interest. Using multivariate stepwise linear regression, we assessed the construct validity of the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O using three dependent measures that are recognized indicators of "impaired mobility" - physiological falls risk, general balance and mobility, and cognitive status among older adults.We report data on 215 seniors who attended the Vancouver Falls Prevention Clinic and received their first clinic assessment. Patients had a mean age of 79.3 (6.2) years. After accounting for known covariates (i.e., age and sex), the ICECAP-O domains explained a greater amount of variation in each of the three dependent measures compared with the EQ-5D domains.Both the EQ-5D and ICECAP-O demonstrate associations with falls risk and general balance and mobility; however, only the ICECAP-O was associated with cognitive status among older adults with mobility impairments.ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01022866.falls-related self-efficacy is associated with falls, falls-related injury and subsequent functional decline which may lead to poor health-related quality-of-life (HRQL). To our knowledge, no previous studies have examined the independent contribution of falls-related self-efficacy to HRQL. Our primary objective was to determine whether falls-related self-efficacy is independently associated HRQL, measured by quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), in older women after accounting for known covariates.we conducted a secondary analysis of 135 community-dwelling older women aged 65-75 years who participated in a 12-month randomised controlled trial of resistance training. We assessed falls-related self-efficacy using the Activities-specific Balance Confidence Scale and QALYs calculated from the EuroQol EQ-5D (EQ-5D).our multivariate linear regression model demonstrated that falls-related self-efficacy as assessed using the Activities-specific Balance Confidence Scale was independently associated with QALYs after accounting for age, group, education, functional co-morbidity index, general mobility, global cognition and physiological falls risk. The final model explained 52% of the variation in QALYs. The ABC Scale accounted for 5% of the total variance in the final model.although falls-related self-efficacy was independently associated with QALYs after controlling for a number of known variables, there may well be other factors not investigated, such as risk taking behaviour and psychological measures, which could account for some of the association.ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00426881.Using two instruments (SF-6D and EQ-5D) to estimate quality adjusted life years (QALYs), we conducted an economic evaluation of a 12-month randomized controlled trial with a 12-month follow-up study in older women to evaluate the value for money of two doses of resistance training compared with balance and tone classes. We found that the incremental QALYs estimated from the SF-6D were two- to threefold greater than those estimated from the EQ-5D.Decision makers must continually choose between existing and new interventions. Hence, economic evaluations are increasingly prevalent. The impact of quality-adjusted life year (QALY) estimates using different instruments on the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) is not well understood in older adults. Thus, we compared ICERs, in older women, estimated by the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and the Short Form-6D (SF-6D) to discuss implications on decision making.Using both the EQ-5D and the SF-6D, we compared the incremental cost per QALY gained in a randomized controlled trial of resistance training in 155 community-dwelling women aged 65 to 75 years. The 12-month randomized controlled trial included a subsequent 12-month follow-up. Our focus, the follow-up study, included 123 of the 155 participants from the Brain Power study; 98 took part in the economic evaluation (twice-weekly balance and tone exercises, n = 28; once-weekly resistance training, n = 35; twice-weekly resistance training, n = 35). Our primary outcome measure was the incremental cost per QALY gained of once- or twice-weekly resistance training compared with balance and tone exercises.At cessation of the follow-up study, the incremental QALY was -0.051 (EQ-5D) and -0.144 (SF-6D) for the once-weekly resistance training group and -0.081 (EQ-5D) and -0.127 (SF-6D) for the twice-weekly resistance training group compared with balance and tone classes.The incremental QALYs estimated from the SF-6D were two- to threefold greater than those estimated from the EQ-5D. Given the large magnitude of difference, the choice of preference-based utility instrument may substantially impact health care decisions.To determine whether the health and cost benefits of resistance training were sustained 12 months after formal cessation of the intervention.Cost-utility analysis conducted alongside a randomized controlled trial.Community-dwelling women aged 65 to 75 living in Vancouver, British Columbia.One hundred twenty-three of the 155 community-dwelling women aged 65 to 75 years who originally were randomly allocated to once-weekly resistance training (n=54), twice-weekly resistance training (n=52), or twice-weekly balance and tone exercises (control group; n=49) participated in the 12-month follow-up study. Of these, 98 took part in the economic evaluation (twice-weekly balance and tone exercises, n=28; once-weekly resistance training, n=35; twice-weekly resistance training, n=35).The primary outcome measure was incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Healthcare resource utilization was assessed over 21 months (2009 prices); health status was assessed using the EuroQol-5D to calculate QALYs using a 21-month time horizon.Once- and twice-weekly resistance training were less costly than balance and tone classes, with incremental mean healthcare costs of Canadian dollars (CAD$)1,857 and CAD$1,077, respectively. The incremental QALYs for once- and twice-weekly resistance training were -0.051 and -0.081, respectively, compared with balance and tone exercises.The cost benefits of participating in a 12-month resistance training intervention were sustained for the once- and twice-weekly resistance training group, whereas the health benefits were not.Cognition is a multidimensional construct and to our knowledge, no previous studies have examined the independent contribution of specific domains of cognition to health related quality of life. To determine whether executive functions are independently associated with health related quality of life assessed using Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) calculated from the EuroQol EQ-5D (EQ-5D) in older women after adjusting for known covariates, including global cognition. Therefore, we conducted a secondary analysis of community-dwelling older women aged 65-75 years who participated in a 12-month randomized controlled trial of resistance training. We assessed global cognition using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and executive functions using the: 1) Stroop Test; 2) Trail Making Test (Part B) and 3) Digits Verbal Span Backwards Test. We calculated QALYs from the EQ-5D administered at baseline, 6 months and 12 months.Our multivariate linear regression model demonstrated the specific executive processes of set shifting and working memory, as measured by Trail Making Test (Part B) and Digits Verbal Span Backward Test (p < 0.01) respectively, were independently associated with QALYs after accounting for age, comorbidities, general mobility, and global cognition. The final model explained 50% of the variation in QALYs.Our study highlights the specific executive processes of set shifting and working memory were independently associated with QALYs -- a measure of health related quality of life. Given that executive functions explain variability in QALYs, clinicians may need to consider assessing executive functions when measuring health related quality of life. Further, the EQ-5D may be used to track changes in health status over time and serve as a screening tool for clinicians.To determine whether visual acuity (VA) improvement in patients with posterior capsule opacification (PCO), accepted after the capsulotomy, is followed by positive changes in the perception of their quality of life.A total of 130 patients with PCO were examined before and after capsulotomy. In addition to the ophthalmic examination, the EuroQol questionnaire was completed. We analyzed the influence of demographic characteristics on the outcome of the test.The mean binocular visual acuity (BVA) and the mean scores in the EuroQol dimensions and EQ-VAS improved significantly after capsulotomy. VA did not have the same effect on daily common tasks. After treatment, the problems in the usual activities dimension have seen the largest reduction. Mobility is still the dimension with more problems regarding patients after capsulotomy.Decreased VA induced by PCO is associated with difficulties performing daily living activities. Capsulotomy results in a gain in VA and functional ability of the majority of patients, improving the perception of their quality of life.To model the cost-effectiveness (CEA) of the use of pregabalin versus usual care (UC) in outpatients with refractory generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) treated in daily practice in mental health settings in Spain.This CEA model used data extracted from a 6-month prospective non-interventional trial: the Amplification of Definition of ANxiety (ADAN) study, which was conducted to determine the cost-of-illness in GAD subjects. Refractory subjects were those who reported persistent symptoms of anxiety and showed suboptimal response in the Hamilton-anxiety scale (HAM-A ≥ 16) after a standard dose regimen of anxiolytics other than pregabalin, alone or in combination, over 6 months. The pregabalin arm was documented with data extracted from patients who received pregabalin in the study for the first time, added or replacing the existing therapy. In the UC arm, treatment might include one or more of the following: a serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor, a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, other anti-depressants, a benzodiazepine or an anti-epileptic drug other than pregabalin. The time horizon of the modelling was 6 months in the base-case scenario, and the National Health System perspective was chosen to calculate costs. Effectiveness was expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, which were derived using the EQ-5D questionnaire, at baseline and end-of-trial visits. Results of the CEA model was expressed as an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per QALY gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis using bootstrapping techniques was also carried out to obtain the cost-effectiveness plane and the corresponding acceptability curve.Data from a total of 429 subjects per arm (mean HAM-A score 25.7) meeting eligible criteria for inclusion in CEA modelling were extracted from the original trial. Compared with UC, pregabalin (average dose 218 mg/day) was associated with significantly higher QALY gain; 0.1209 ± 0.1030 versus 0.0994 ± 0.0979 (P = 0.003), but increased healthcare costs as well; <euro>1,272 ± 1,240 versus <euro>1,070 ± 1,177 (P < 0.069) and drug costs <euro>525 ± 252 versus 219 ± 211 (P < 0.001), resulting in an ICER of <euro>15,804/QALY (95 % CI 6,661; 37,186) for healthcare costs and <euro>15,165/QALY (7,947; 31,754) when drug costs were considered alone. A total of 94 % of re-samples fell below the threshold of <euro>30,000 per QALY.This evaluation modelling suggests that pregabalin may be cost-effective in comparison with UC in outpatients with refractory GAD treated in mental healthcare settings in daily practice in Spain.Elbow dislocations can be classified as simple or complex. Simple dislocations are characterized by the absence of fractures, while complex dislocations are associated with fractures. After reduction of a simple dislocation, treatment options include immobilization in a static plaster for different periods of time or so-called functional treatment. Functional treatment is characterized by early active motion within the limits of pain with or without the use of a sling or hinged brace. Theoretically, functional treatment should prevent stiffness without introducing increased joint instability. The primary aim of this randomized controlled trial is to compare early functional treatment versus plaster immobilization following simple dislocations of the elbow.The design of the study will be a multicenter randomized controlled trial of 100 patients who have sustained a simple elbow dislocation. After reduction of the dislocation, patients are randomized between a pressure bandage for 5-7 days and early functional treatment or a plaster in 90 degrees flexion, neutral position for pro-supination for a period of three weeks. In the functional group, treatment is started with early active motion within the limits of pain. Function, pain, and radiographic recovery will be evaluated at regular intervals over the subsequent 12 months. The primary outcome measure is the Quick Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand score. The secondary outcome measures are the Mayo Elbow Performance Index, Oxford elbow score, pain level at both sides, range of motion of the elbow joint at both sides, rate of secondary interventions and complication rates in both groups (secondary dislocation, instability, relaxation), health-related quality of life (Short-Form 36 and EuroQol-5D), radiographic appearance of the elbow joint (degenerative changes and heterotopic ossifications), costs, and cost-effectiveness.The successful completion of this trial will provide evidence on the effectiveness of a functional treatment for the management of simple elbow dislocations.The trial is registered at the Netherlands Trial Register (NTR2025).Short stay (admission, surgery, and discharge the same day or within 24 hours) following breast cancer surgery is part of an established care protocol but as yet not well implemented in Europe. Alongside a before-after multi-centre implementation study, an economic evaluation was performed exploring the cost-effectiveness of a short stay programme (SSP) versus care as usual (CAU).In the implementation study, 324 patients were included. In the economic evaluation a societal perspective was applied with a six week time horizon. Cost data were obtained from Case Record Forms and cost diaries. Effectiveness was assessed by calculating Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs), using the EuroQol-5D. Cost-effectiveness was expressed as the incremental costs per QALY.Mean societal costs decreased by euro955,- (95% CI euro - 2104,- to euro157,-) for patients in SSP (n=127) compared with CAU (n=135). Mean healthcare costs differed euro883,- (95% CI euro - 1560,- to euro870,-) in favour of SSP. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio could not be calculated due to similar effectiveness for both groups, i.e. the difference in QALYs was zero. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curves showed that the probability that SSP was more cost-effective than CAU was over 90% in the base-case analysis.A short stay programme as implemented is cost-effective compared with care as usual. In achieving good and more efficient quality of care, larger scale implementation is warranted.This study aimed to unravel the multidimensional profile of stroke outcomes by investigating the global correlation structure of motor, functional, and emotional problems of patients, as well as their caregivers' strain, at 6 months after stroke. Potential differential associations based on patients' level of functioning on admission to the rehabilitation center were analyzed.Data were collected within the CERISE-study (Collaborative Evaluation of Rehabilitation in Stroke across Europe). Six months after stroke, the Rivermead Motor Assessment (RMA), Extended Activities of Daily Living (EADL), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-Anxiety (HADS-A) and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale-Depression (HADS-D), EuroQol-Health State (EQ-HS), EuroQol-Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-VAS), and Caregiver Strain Index (CSI) were administered. Patients were classified into 3 categories according to their Barthel Index (BI) score on admission to the rehabilitation center. Principal component analysis was carried out, and a biplot was constructed.Data were available on 510 patients. One cluster was formed by RMA and EADL, and a second one by HADS-A, HADS-D, and EQ-VAS. EQ-HS was situated between these two. CSI formed a third dimension. Patients with low BI scores on admission to the rehabilitation center had higher HADS-A and HADS-D scores 6 months after stroke. High BI scores were associated with large variations in HADS-A and HADS-D scores.This novel biplot strategy for rehabilitation studies revealed 2 clusters: one of motor/functional problems and one of emotional problems. Patients with mild functional deficit measured on admission to the rehabilitation center can suffer from mild to severe anxiety and depression at 6 months poststroke. Screening for emotional disorders in all patients is recommended.Evaluating the quality of life of young adult survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is important as they are likely to have a longer life expectancy than older patients. The aim of this study was to assess their functional and quality of life outcomes.The Victorian Ambulance Cardiac Arrest Registry records were used to identify survivors of OHCA that occurred between 2003 and 2008 in the 18-39 year-old age group. Survivors were administered a telephone questionnaire using Short Form (SF-12), EQ-5D and Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended. Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) ascertained at hospital discharge from the medical record was recorded for the uncontactable survivors.Of the 106 young adult survivors, five died in the intervening years and 45 were not contactable or refused. CPC scores were obtained for 37 (74%) of those who did not take part in telephone follow-up, and 7 (19%) of these had a CPC ≥ 3 indicating severe cerebral disability. The median follow-up time was 5 years (range 2.7- 8.6 years) for the 56 (53%) patients included. Of these, 84% were living at home independently, 68% had returned to work, and only 11% reported marked or severe disability. The majority of patients had no problems with mobility (75%), personal care (75%), usual activities (66%) or pain/discomfort (71%). However, 61% of respondents reported either moderate (48%) or severe (13%) anxiety.The majority of survivors have good functional and quality of life outcomes. Telephone follow-up is feasible in the young adult survivors of cardiac arrest; loss to follow-up is common.Rituximab maintenance therapy was shown to significantly extend overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) in relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) in the pivotal EORTC 20981 trial.To assess the long-term costs and cost effectiveness of rituximab maintenance therapy after induction therapy versus current standard practice (observation) from the French National Health Service perspective.A lifetime transition model was developed comparing rituximab maintenance with observation. PFS and OS were obtained from the EORTC 20981 trial with a median follow-up of 28 months and extrapolated from 2-year Kaplan-Meier curves using a Weibull distribution. PFS and OS benefits of rituximab were conservatively assumed to last only 5 years. Utility data were obtained from a multicentre observational study using the EQ-5D questionnaire. Direct medical costs were obtained from French official sources. All costs are reported in euro, year 2006 values.The EORTC 20981 study demonstrated that rituximab maintenance was effective in the management of relapsed/refractory FL. The model results showed that life expectancy and QALYs were increased by 22% and 28%, respectively, in patients treated with rituximab. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were euro 7612 per life-year gained and euro 8729 per QALY gained. In a one-way sensitivity analysis, most of the ICERs fell within the range of euro 7000-12,000. The results tend to show that rituximab maintenance therapy may be a cost-effective strategy in the management of relapsed/refractory FL in France, with ICERs below those observed for other therapies in the oncology field. The cost of rituximab was partly offset by the lower cost of relapse due to a longer time in the disease-free health state for patients in the rituximab arm.Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) for Gaucher disease with mannose-terminated glucocerebrosidase has proved its therapeutic position with salutary effects on hematologic abnormalities, visceral infiltration, and quality of life. The frequency of new bone complications is reduced but not eliminated. Established osteonecrosis is beyond salvage. A systematic description of the burden of bone manifestations, persisting despite ERT, should inform future remedial strategies. Thus, we conducted this study to quantify the burden of residual skeletal disease and to explore putative relationships between clinical, radiologic, and biochemical factors and bone sequelae associated with disability.Consecutive adult patients attending 3 referral centers in the United Kingdom were invited to participate. A representative group of 100 patients agreed to a structured interview, clinical examination, radiologic review, and completion of questionnaires. Osteonecrosis was evident in 43%, Erlenmeyer flask deformity in 59%, fragility fracture in 28%, osteomyelitis in 6%, and lytic lesions in 4%. Mobility was impaired in 32% of patients, while 15% experienced significant pain. The EuroQol 5D (EQ5D) quality of life summary measure was reduced and was associated with osteonecrosis and fragility fracture. Eight patients experienced new osteonecrosis after the start of ERT, though the presentation and evolution were often atypical. Nine patients had been treated from childhood and had an excellent outcome. Osteonecrosis was associated with age of presentation and with splenectomy-indeed, we observed a strong temporal association between splenectomy and incidence of osteonecrosis.The biomarkers PARC/CCL18 and chitotriosidase were associated with prevalent osteonecrosis, and, in particular, with osteonecrosis occurring despite treatment. This study documents significant residual skeletal pathology and disability in patients in the mature phase of their treatment in a developed region. The temporal association between splenectomy and osteonecrosis implies causation. The relationship between clinical and biochemical markers and existing bone complications sets the scene for future prospective studies that will focus on management strategies informed by credible assessment of risk.Insufficient response to monotreatment for depression is a common phenomenon in clinical practice. Even so, evidence indicating how to proceed in such cases is sparse.This study looks at the second phase of a sequential treatment algorithm, in which 103 outpatients with moderately severe depression were initially randomized to either short-term supportive psychodynamic therapy (PDT) or antidepressants. Patients who reported less than 30% symptom improvement after 8 weeks were offered combined treatment. Outcome measures were the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D), the Clinical Global Impression of Severity and Improvement, the SCL-90 depression subscale and the EuroQOL questionnaire.Despite being nonresponsive, about 40% of patients preferred to continue with monotherapy. At treatment termination, patients initially randomized to PDT had improved more than those initially receiving antidepressants, as indicated by the HAM-D and the EuroQOL, independently of whether the addition was accepted or not.Starting with psychotherapy may be preferable in mildly and moderately depressed outpatients. For patients who receive either PDT or antidepressants, combined therapy after early nonresponse seems to be helpful. Nevertheless, this sequential strategy is not always preferred by patients.To describe the clinical and epidemiological characteristics of patients included in the National Register of Paget's disease.A Register of patients with Paget disease (PD), radiologically confirmed, and pertaining to 25 hospitals was analysed. Clinical and epidemiological data were collected, including age, sex, date and presentations at time of diagnosis, treatment, quality of life (QL) (EuroQol 5D) and perceived health, environmental factors (profession, history of measles, contact with animals, dairy consumption, housing conditions, place of birth and address) and family history (PD history, origin of the ancestors, number of children). We conducted a statistical description of the data.The register included 602 patients with an average age of 62±11 years and a predominance of male (55%). Of the patients included, 79% showed symptoms at the time of diagnosis, mainly pain (83%); 82% had received treatment, mainly bisphosphonates (47% more than one drug). Despite treatment, a significant proportion had limitations in their QL, especially related to pain (64%), mobility (47%) and anxiety/depression (33%). Most of the patients had been exposed to situations which were considered as risk factors. Of the patients included, 14% had family history of PD and 1.5% had children with PD. The ancestors of the familial cases came more frequently from Avila, Salamanca, La Coruña and Malaga.The pain and the limitation of mobility decrease the QL of patients with PD despite treatment. Frequently, patients have a history of exposure to risk factors.The aim of this study was to determine whether a 12-week course of low-frequency vibrating board therapy is a feasible therapy for non-specific chronic low back pain, and whether it improves the main outcome measures.Randomized controlled trial.A total of 50 patients with non-specific low back pain were included. They were randomly assigned to either a vibrating plate via reciprocation therapy group (n = 25) or a control group (n = 25).The 12-week vibration therapy programme consisted of a total of 24 training sessions (2 times/week, with 1 day of rest between sessions). Assessments of the main outcome measures for non-specific low back pain were performed at baseline and at 12 weeks.In the vibration therapy group there was a statistically significant improvement, of 20.37% (p = 0.031) in the Postural Stability Index (anterior-posterior); 25.15% (p = 0.013) in the Oswestry Index; 9.31% in the Roland Morris Index (p = 0.001); 8.57% (p = 0.042) in EuroQol 5D-3L; 20.29% (p = 0.002) in the Sens test; 24.13% (p = 0.006) in visual analogue scale back; and 16.58% (p = 0.008) in the Progressive Isoinertial Lifting Evaluation test.A 12-week course of low-frequency vibrating board therapy is feasible and may represent a novel physical therapy for patients with non-specific low back pain.Bilateral pallidal deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established treatment option for primary generalized and segmental dystonia. In the present study we evaluated the results of our dystonia patients treated by DBS.The surgical results of forty consecutive dystonia patients underwent DBS implantation were analyzed (age: 43.7 +/- 17.7 years; sex: 22 men; etiology: 24 primary and 16 secondary dystonia; topography: 24 generalized, 12 segmental and four hemidystonia; disease duration: 16.1 +/- 9.3 years). Severity of dystonia measured by Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale (BFMDRS) and health-related quality of life measured by EQ-5D scale were obtained preoperatively and compared to the scores obtained at postoperative six months and subsequent yearly follow-ups. The average follow-up lasted 2.5 years (median, 0.5-8 years). In all cases the BFMDRS scores were re-evaluated by a rater blinded to the treatment. Treatment responsiveness was defined as an at least 25% improvement on the BFMDRS scores. Non-parametric Mann-Whitney, McNemar and Kruskal-Wallis tests were applied to test statistical significance.Severity of dystonia improved from 31 to 10 points (median, 68% improvement, p < 0.01) in the primary dystonia group, whereas in secondary dystonia these changes were statistically insignificant (improvement from 40 to 31.5 points, 21.2%, p > 0.05). However, the health-related quality of life significantly improved in both groups (primary dystonia: 0.378 vs. 0.788 and secondary dystonia: 0.110 vs. 0.388, p < 0.01). Significantly more patients in the primary dystonia group responded to DBS treatment than those in the secondary dystonia group (83.3% vs. 37.5%, p < 0.01).Our results are in accordance with previously published international findings demonstrating that DBS is a highly effective and long-lasting treatment option for primary dystonia. DBS is considerably less efficient in secondary dystonia; however, it still has a high impact on the quality of life presumably due to its pain-relieving effect.Coccydynia is a painful condition affecting quality of life. The majority of patients can be successfully treated by non-surgical means. Chemical neurolysis, cryoablation and radiofrequency thermocoagulation (RFT) of ganglion impar are also used in the treatment of visceral pelvic pain. We analyzed the efficacy of RFT of ganglion impar in patients with chronic coccydynia.We retrospectively analyzed the collected data of 10 patients with chronic coccydynia (pain>6 months) who were treated by RFT of the ganglion.The mean age of the patients was 49.2+/-14.4 (range 27-77) with 8 females (80%) and 2 males (20%). The average follow-up duration was 9.1+/-1.2 months. Statistically significant differences were observed between the preprocedure and post-procedure VNSs (p<0.01). Improvements in VNS scores were correlated with improvements in the EQ-5D scores. Midterm evaluation after the treatment (6 months) revealed that 90% of the patients had a successful outcome and 10% were deemed failures.Our data suggest that RFT destruction of ganglion impar in patients with chronic coccydynia has an effective outcome and patients responding to RFT have significantly lower post-RFT pain scores. The most important factors determining success of this procedure is strict patient selection criteria and the technique of the procedure.Fractures of the proximal humerus are associated with a profound temporary and sometimes permanent, impairment of function and quality of life. The treatment of comminuted fractures of the proximal humerus like selected three-or four-part fractures and split fractures of the humeral head is a demanding and unresolved problem, especially in the elderly. Locking plates appear to offer improved fixation; however, screw cut-out rates ranges due to fracture collapse are high. As this may lead to higher rates of revision surgery, it may be preferable to treat comminuted fractures in the elderly primarily with a prosthesis or non-operatively. Results from case series and a small-sample randomized controlled trial (RCT) suggest improved function and less pain after primary hemiarthroplasty (HA); however these studies had some limitations and a RCT is needed. The primary aim of this study is to compare the Constant scores (reflecting functional outcome and pain) at one year after primary HA versus non-operative treatment in elderly patients who sustained a comminuted proximal humeral fracture. Secondary aims include effects on functional outcome, pain, complications, quality of life, and cost-effectiveness.A prospective, multi-center RCT will be conducted in nine centers in the Netherlands and Belgium. Eighty patients over 65 years of age, who have sustained a three-or four part, or split head proximal humeral fracture will be randomized between primary hemiarthroplasty and conservative treatment. The primary outcome is the Constant score, which indicates pain and function. Secondary outcomes include the Disability of the Arm and Shoulder (DASH) score, Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain, radiographic healing, health-related quality of life (Short-form-36, EuroQol-5D) and healthcare consumption. Cost-effectiveness ratios will be determined for both trial arms. Outcome will be monitored at regular intervals over the subsequent 24 months (1, 3 and 6 weeks, and 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months). Data will be analyzed on an intention to treat basis, using univariate and multivariable analyses.This trial will provide level-1 evidence on the effectiveness of the two mostly applied treatment options for three-or four part and split head proximal humeral fractures in the elderly. These data may support the development of a clinical guideline for treatment of these traumatic injuries.Netherlands Trial Register (NTR2040).A retrospective, observational, cohort study in primary care. To determine the total direct medical and non-medical cost of chronic low back pain (LBP) in France and its associated factors. Chronic LBP affects 5-10% of the population its burden in France is unknown. Ninety-eight randomly selected general practitioners included 796 adult patients with chronic LBP between October 2001 and December 2002. Direct costs due to physician visits, investigations, medications, hospitalizations, and other medical and non-medical resource use were collected for the 6 months prior to study visit. Costs both reimbursed and not by the French health insurance system were considered. Quality of life (QoL) and disease severity were measured using Short Form (SF)-8 and Roland-Morris disability questionnaire (RMDQ), respectively. Costs were updated to represent 2007 prices. Men represented 50.6% of the 796 patients, mean age was 53 +/- 11.3 years, and the duration of LBP was more than 1 year in 80.9% of patients. The total mean cost per patient over six months was 715.6 euro (95% CI: 644.2-797.8). Of these costs, 22.9% related to care provided by physiotherapists and allied specialists, 19.5% to medications, 17.4% to hospitalizations, 9.6% to investigations, and 12.5% to physician fees. In multivariate analysis, the factors associated with the cost of chronic LBP were disease severity (RMDQ score) and age of the patients. LBP is a disease that is both common and costly.Before an intended Prospective Outcomes of Injury Study (POIS), a pilot was undertaken to determine whether: 1) injured entitlement claimants would participate in an injury study when first approached by their insurer, the Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC); 2) people with different types of injury would participate; 3) injured people would answer detailed questions about their injury, alcohol use, disability, health and financial status; and 4) participants would be satisfied with the process of recruitment and interviewing.ACC randomly selected eligible entitlement claimants who were: aged 18 to 65 years, New Zealand residents at the time of injury, from one of four regions, and registered for an acute injury in November 2006. ACC sent a covering letter introducing the study and advised people of the opportunity to 'opt out', together with a Participant Information Sheet. Contact details those not opting out were provided to the researchers who then arranged a telephone interview. After interview, participants were sent a thank you letter and $10 voucher. Interviews included a range of measures selected to reflect the World Health Organization model of functioning, disability and health including the short-form WHODAS II, the EQ-5D and questions about their health, satisfaction with ACC and health services, financial status, paid and unpaid activities and demographics.66% (111/168) of contactable people participated. Compared to non-participants, participants were more likely to be older and female. Participants reported a range of anatomical regions injured and injury types, including multiple trauma following vehicle crashes, burns, blood poisoning, sprains and strains. Missing responses were highest for total income. However, few responses were missing to questions about difficulty living on household income, likelihood of financial hardship, standard of living and other personal questions. Interviews took an average of 57 minutes. Two-thirds of participants expressed a positive impression of the interview and questions. Four percent reported feeling negative about the initial contact coming from ACC.An injury outcome study collecting a range of pre-injury and post-injury data, able to identify predictors of disability, was both feasible and acceptable to the intended study population. Methods that required refinement were identified for the main POIS study which is currently underway.Information is required about recovery after injury, including general health measures such as the EQ-5D. This project aimed to: (1) search for studies of injury outcome using the EQ-5D, (2) describe EQ-5D administration and analysis, (3) summarize reliability and validity, and (4) report EQ-5D outcomes.A systematic search was undertaken for publications (January 1990 to May 2008). Studies were excluded if the EQ-5D was not used or if injury was a secondary outcome or resulted from a degenerative condition.Of 79 potentially eligible articles retrieved, 35 were excluded and 44 remained. Sample sizes ranged between n = 14 and n = 3,231. Two thirds of studies described injury outcomes, the remainder focused on specific treatments after injury. Of studies reporting EQ-5D index scores, most used the UK value set, and 29% did not specify a value set. In 16 studies, the EQ-5D was self-completed by participants, and in others, administration was by interviewer, proxy, or unspecified. Time of administration varied between 6 days and 7 years after injury. The absence of a cognitive dimension in the EQ-5D was a concern.Given the global impact of injury-related disability, our search supports calls for comprehensive population-level research exploring outcomes. Many studies considered only specific treatments after injury, had small sample sizes, or were undertaken in wealthy countries. Although noting reservations about the EQ-5D, such as the absence of a cognitive dimension; the EQ-SD being freely available to nonprofit-making organizations, and with many language versions available, seems suitable for studies in wealthy and poorer nations alike.In New Zealand (NZ), 20% of adults report a disability, of which one-third is caused by injury. No prospective epidemiological studies of predictors of disability following all-cause injury among New Zealanders have been undertaken. Internationally, studies have focused on a limited range of predictors or specific injuries. Although these studies provide useful insights, applicability to NZ is limited given the importance of NZ's unique macro-social factors, such as NZ's no-fault accident compensation and rehabilitation scheme, the Accident Compensation Corporation (ACC).(1) To quantitatively determine the injury, rehabilitation, personal, social and economic factors leading to disability outcomes following injury in NZ. (2) To qualitatively explore experiences and perceptions of injury-related outcomes in face-to-face interviews with 15 Māori and 15 other New Zealanders, 6 and 12 months after injury.Four geographical regions within NZ.Prospective cohort study with telephone interviews 1, 4 and 12 months after injury.2500 people (including 460 Māori), aged 18-64 years, randomly selected from ACC's entitlement claims register (people likely to be off work for at least 1 week or equivalent).Telephone interviews, electronic hospital and ACC injury data. Exposures include demographic, social, economic, work-related, health status, participation and/or environmental factors.Primary: disability (including WHODAS II) and health-related quality of life (including EQ-5D). Secondary: participation (paid and unpaid activities), life satisfaction and costs.Separate regression models will be developed for each of the outcomes. Repeated measures outcomes will be modelled using general estimating equation models and generalised linear mixed models.The value of cardiac rehabilitation in patients with coronary artery disease has been well established. The main problem is a low attendance of patients qualified for rehabilitation.To assess differences between subjects attending outpatient cardiac rehabilitation (OutCR) after completing an early inpatient programme (InCR), and patients refusing participation in OutCR; to investigate factors determining patients' decisions.Seventy-two patients (mean age 57 +/- 9.4 years; 53 men) 2-3 weeks after an acute coronary syndrome (ACS) treated with primary PCI were enrolled. On admission to the cardiac rehabilitation ward, the following parameters were assessed: quality of life (EuroQol-5D questionnaire), psychological status (Beck's, SOPER and STAI questionnaires), marital status, education, economic status, employment, place of living, smoking status, and comorbidities (a questionnaire prepared by the authors). Additionally, patients' opinions on outpatient and inpatient cardiac rehabilitation were noted. The inpatient programme lasted 2-3 weeks. At discharge, the assessment was repeated, and patients were proposed to enrol in a 12-week outpatient programme. In the case of refusal, patients were asked to give the reason.Two men failed to complete the inpatient program. Of the remaining 70 subjects, 16 attended and completed the outpatient programme. In the group participating in OutCR, there were fewer patients with depression before InCR (12 vs. 39% in the group without OutCR, p = 0.0484). Subjects in the OutCR group had a higher score for mood after InCR (7.7 +/- 1.25 vs. 6.7 +/- 1.69, p = 0.0365), lower score for emotional stress before and after InCR (before InCR: 4.4 +/- 1.09 vs. 5.3 +/- 1.34, p = 0.0188; after InCR: 3.8 +/- 1.51 vs. 4.8 +/- 1.4, p = 0.0262), and lower score for anxiety before InCR (3.1 +/- 1.75 vs. 4.4 +/- 2.12, p = 0.0426). Patients in the two groups differed with regard to employment (p = 0.0256) and smoking status (p = 0.0517). In both groups, most patients (ł 80%) preferred inpatient rehabilitation. Continuous medical care, lack of commuting problems, and convenience were the most frequently given advantages of inpatient rehabilitation, while commuting problems and conflict with job were the most frequently perceived barriers to outpatient rehabilitation.Only a small proportion of patients after an ACS decides to participate in outpatient rehabilitation after completing a short-term inpatient programme. Psychological status, employment and smoking status are among the factors that differentiate OutCR attenders and non-attenders. Continuous medical care, lack of commuting problems, and convenience were the most frequently given advantages of inpatient rehabilitation, while commuting problems and conflict with job were the most frequently perceived barriers to outpatient rehabilitation.Pelvic organ prolapse is a common health problem, affecting up to 40% of parous women over 50 years old, with significant negative influence on quality of life. Vaginal hysterectomy is currently the leading treatment method for patients with symptomatic uterine prolapse. Several studies have shown that sacrospinous fixation in case of uterine prolapse is a safe and effective alternative to vaginal hysterectomy. However, no large randomized trials with long-term follow-up have been performed to compare efficacy and quality of life between both techniques.The SAVE U trial is designed to compare sacrospinous fixation with vaginal hysterectomy in the treatment of uterine prolapse stage 2 or higher in terms of prolapse recurrence, quality of life, complications, hospital stay, post-operative recovery and sexual functioning.The SAVE U trial is a randomized controlled multi-center non-inferiority trial. The study compares sacrospinous fixation with vaginal hysterectomy in women with uterine prolapse stage 2 or higher. The primary outcome measure is recurrence of uterine prolapse defined as: uterine descent stage 2 or more assessed by pelvic organ prolapse quantification examination and prolapse complaints and/or redo surgery at 12 months follow-up. Secondary outcomes are subjective improvement in quality of life measured by generic (Short Form 36 and Euroqol 5D) and disease-specific (Urogenital Distress Inventory, Defecatory Distress Inventory and Incontinence Impact Questionnaire) quality of life instruments, complications following surgery, hospital stay, post-operative recovery and sexual functioning (Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire). Analysis will be performed according to the intention to treat principle. Based on comparable recurrence rates of 3% and considering an upper-limit of 7% to be non-inferior (beta 0.2 and one sided alpha 0.025), 104 patients are needed per group.The SAVE U trial is a randomized multicenter trial that will provide evidence whether the efficacy of sacrospinous fixation is similar to vaginal hysterectomy in women with uterine prolapse stage 2 or higher.Netherlands Trial Register (NTR): NTR1866.Systematic review.To determine the correlation of patient-reported pain with physical function and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after spine surgery and to determine the responsiveness of pain, physical function, and HRQoL after spine surgery.Several validated outcome instruments are available to assess the success of treatment for chronic low back pain. These patient-centered tools include measurements for pain based on numeric scales, validated condition-specific functional outcomes measures, and HRQoL outcomes measures. It is unclear whether these three types of patient-reported outcomes are measuring different constructs and whether all three should be measured after spine surgery. In addition, it is unclear which of these outcomes measures is most sensitive to change after spine surgery for low back pain.A systematic search was conducted in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Collaboration Library for literature published through December 2010. The correlation between pain (visual analog scale, VAS), physical function (Oswestry Disability Index, ODI), and HRQoL (36-Item Short Form Health Survey [SF-36] and European Quality of Life [EQ-5D]) change scores was performed using the Spearman rank correlation coefficients. To compare the responsiveness of pain, function, and HRQoL scores after spine surgery, we calculated effect sizes by dividing change scores by the SD of the baseline scores. This standardized method allowed us to compare the responsiveness of each outcome measure directly and reported an effect size of 0.2 to 0.3 as a "small" effect, around 0.5 a "medium" effect and 0.8 to infinity, a "large" effect. To determine whether the differences in effect sizes measuring responsiveness were significantly different, we conducted a Wilcoxon signed-rank test between each of the three measurements of pain, function, and HRQoL scores when there was enough data to perform the test.None of the correlations exceeded 0.70 using the Spearman rank correlation coefficients, suggesting that these outcomes are measuring different constructs. The strongest correlations were between the VAS back pain change scores and the SF-36 physical composite score change scores (ρ = 0.67) and VAS back pain change scores and ODI change scores (ρ = 0.69). The pooled mean effect sizes for the five studies that reported a pain measure and the ODI were 1.4 ± 0.57 and 1.1 ± 0.39, respectively. Both are considered "large" effect sizes. The pooled mean effect sizes for the three studies reporting the SF-36 physical and mental composite scores were 0.66 ± 0.39 and 0.54 ± 0.36, respectively. Both are considered "medium" effect sizes. The pooled mean effect sizes for the single studies reporting the EQ-5D and SF-36 total score were 0.78 ± 0.12 and 0.34 ± 0.21. These were "medium" and "small," respectively.We observed little correlation between the change in pain and the change in HRQoL outcomes measures. The strongest correlation was between VAS pain and ODI but was still not considered strong (0.69). These findings suggest that these three outcomes (pain, function, and HRQoL) are measuring different constructs. With respect to responsiveness, VAS pain and ODI were the only outcomes measures that demonstrated a large effect after lumbar spine surgery. None of the HRQoL tools were as sensitive to the treatment. The EQ-5D, SF physical composite, and SF mental composite outcomes demonstrated a medium effect, while the SF-36 total score demonstrated a small effect. The responsive measure shows that the more specific the outcomes tool, the more sensitive the response.Recommendation 1: When surgically treating CLBP, we recommend administering both a VAS for pain and a condition-specific physical measure such as the ODI before and after surgical intervention as these outcomes are the most treatment specific and responsive to change. Strength of recommendation: Strong.Recommendation 2: When evaluating the surgical outcomes for CLBP in the clinical-research setting, we recommend selecting a shorter version for measuring general HRQoL (e.g., SF-12, EQ-5D) to minimize clinician and patient burden. Strength of recommendation: Strong.'Lead Time' TTO improves upon conventional TTO by providing a uniform method for eliciting positive and negative values. This research investigates (i) the values generated from different combinations of time in poor health and in full health; and the order in which these appear (lead vs. lag); (ii) whether values concur with participants' views about states; (iii) methods for handling extreme preferences. n = 208 participants valued five EQ-5D states, using two of four variants. Combinations of lead time and health state duration were: 10 years and 20 years; 5 years and 1 year; 5 years and 10 years; and a health state duration of 5 years with a lag time of 10 years. Longer lead times capture more preferences, but may involve a framing effect. Lag time results in less non-trading for mild states, and less time being traded for severe states. Negative values broadly agree with participants' stated opinion that the state is worse than dead. The values are sensitive to the ratio of lead time to duration of poor health, and the order in which these appear (lead vs. lag). It is feasible to handle extreme preferences though challenges remain.In a landmark move, the UK Department of Health (DH) has introduced the routine collection of patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) to measure the performance of health-care providers. From April 2009, generic (EQ-5D) and condition-specific PROMs are being collected from patients before and after four surgical procedures; eventually this will be extended to include a wide range of other NHS services. The aim of this article is to report analysis of the EQ-5D data generated from a pilot study commissioned by the DH and to consider the implications for the use of EQ-5D data in performance indicators and measures of patient benefit. We present two new methods that we have developed for analysing and displaying EQ-5D profile data: a Paretian Classification of Health Change and a health profile grid. We show that EQ-5D profile data can be readily analysed to generate insights into the nature of changes in patient-reported health that would be obscured by summarising these profiles by their index scores, or focusing just on the post operative outcomes. Our methods indicate differences between providers and between sub-groups of patients. Our results also show striking differences in changes in EQ-5D profiles between surgical procedures, which require further investigation.Patients with cardiac syndrome X (CSX) have an excellent long-term prognosis, but a significant number show worsening angina over time. Previous studies have found a significant impairment of cardiac uptake of iodine-123-meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) on myocardial scintigraphy, indicating abnormal function of cardiac adrenergic nerve fibers. The aim of this study was to assess whether cardiac MIBG results can predict symptomatic outcome in patients with CSX. Cardiac MIBG scintigraphy was performed in 40 patients with CSX (mean age 58 ± 5 years, 14 men). Cardiac MIBG uptake was measured by the heart/mediastinum uptake ratio and a single photon-emission computed tomographic regional uptake score (higher values reflected lower uptake). Clinical findings, exercise stress test parameters, sestamibi stress myocardial scintigraphy, and C-reactive protein serum levels were also assessed. At an average follow-up of 79 months (range 36 to 144), no patient had died or developed acute myocardial infarction. Cardiac MIBG defect score was significantly lower in patients with worsening versus those without worsening of angina status (13 ± 7 vs 38 ± 28, p = 0.001), in those with versus those without hospital readmission because of recurrent chest pain (15 ± 9 vs 35 ± 29, p = 0.01), and in those who underwent versus those who did not undergo repeat coronary angiography (11 ± 7 vs 36 ± 27, p = 0.001). Significant correlations were found between quality of life (as assessed by the EuroQoL scale) and heart/mediastinum ratio (r = 0.48, p = 0.002) and cardiac MIBG uptake score (r = -0.69, p <0.001). No other clinical or laboratory variable showed a significant association with clinical end points. In conclusion, in patients with CSX, abnormal function of cardiac adrenergic nerve fibers, as assessed by an impairment of cardiac MIBG uptake, identifies those with worse symptomatic clinical outcomes.Social isolation affects a significant proportion of older people and is associated with poor health outcomes. The current evidence base regarding the effectiveness of interventions targeting social isolation is poor, and the potential utility of mentoring for this purpose has not previously been rigorously evaluated. The purpose of this study was to examine the effectiveness of a community-based mentoring service for improving mental health, social engagement and physical health for socially isolated older people.This prospective controlled trial compared a sample of mentoring service clients (intervention group) with a matched control group recruited through general practice. One hundred and ninety five participants from each group were matched on mental wellbeing and social activity scores. Assessments were conducted at baseline and at six month follow-up. The primary outcome was the Short Form Health Survey v2 (SF-12) mental health component score (MCS). Secondary outcomes included the SF-12 physical health component score (PCS), EuroQol EQ-5D, Geriatric Depression Score (GDS-10), social activity, social support and morbidities.We found no evidence that mentoring was beneficial across a wide range of participant outcomes measuring health status, social activity and depression. No statistically significant between-group differences were observed at follow-up in the primary outcome (p = 0.48) and in most secondary outcomes. Identifying suitable matched pairs of intervention and control group participants proved challenging.The results of this trial provide no substantial evidence supporting the use of community mentoring as an effective means of alleviating social isolation in older people. Further evidence is needed on the effectiveness of community-based interventions targeting social isolation. When using non-randomised designs, there are considerable challenges in the recruitment of suitable matches from a community sample.SCIE Research Register for Social Care 105923.Vertebroplasty (VP) is a cost-efficient alternative to kyphoplasty. However, it is considered inferior when it comes to maintaining safety and in vertebral body (VB) height restoration. We assess the safety and efficacy of VP in alleviating pain, improving quality of life (QoL), and restoring alignment.In a prospective monocenter case series, from April 2007 until July 2008, 1,422 vertebroplasties were performed, during 307 interventions, in 279 patients with traumatic, lytic, and osteoporotic fractures with 28 repeat interventions, for new fractures after the primary surgery, in 28 patients. The 226 interventions (n=203 patients) done for osteoporotic fractures were analyzed for demographics, treatment and radiographic details, pain alleviation, QoL improvement [NASS and Euroqol (EQ-5D)] and complications.Osteoporotic patient sample consisted of 77.8% (n=158) females with a median age of 78 years and 45 males who had the same median age. Around 69% of these patients were ASA (American Society of Anesthesiologists) grade 3 and above. On an average there were 1.8 VBs fractured and five VBs treated,whereas the most frequently performed cementations were in six (35.6%, n=80) or five (19.6%, n=44) levels. About 36.5%, (n=414) of the interventions were localized at the thoraco-lumbar junction (Th12-L2). On applying the Genant classification, there was a slight height reduction in 13.1% (n=29), a medium loss in 34.3% (n=78), and a severe loss of height in 52.6% (n=119). The pre-operative pain was assessed by the visual analog scale (VAS) and decreased from 56.7 to 41.4 pts after two months. Accordingly, the QoL on the EQ-5D measure (0.6 to 1) improved from 0.32 pts before surgery to 0.58 pts after two months. The pre-operative Beck index (anterior height/posterior height) improved from a mean of 0.66 preoperative to 0.80 post-operative and remained stable at two months post-operatively. There were cement leakages in 33% of the fractured VBs and in 0.8% of the prophylactically cemented VBs; there were symptoms in 7.1%, and most of them were temporary hypotension and one pulmonary cement embolism that remained asymptomatic.If routinely used, VP is a safe and efficient treatment option for osteoporotic vertebral fractures with regard to pain relief and improvement of the QoL. Even segmental re-alignment can be achieved to a certain extent with proper patient positioning.Vertebroplasty (VP) is a cost-efficient alternative to kyphoplasty; however, regarding safety and vertebral body (VB) height restoration, it is considered inferior. We assessed the safety and efficacy of VP in alleviating pain, improving quality of life (QoL) and restoring alignment.In a prospective monocenter case series from May 2007 until July 2008, there were 1,408 vertebroplasties performed during 319 interventions in 306 patients with traumatic, lytic and osteoporotic fractures. The 249 interventions in 233 patients performed because of osteoporotic vertebral fractures were analyzed regarding demographics, treatment and radiographic details, pain alleviation (VAS), QoL improvement (NASS and EQ-5D), complications and predictors for new fractures requiring a reoperation.The osteoporotic patient sample consisted of 76.7% (179) females with a median age of 80 years. A total of 54 males had a median age of 77 years. On average, there were 1.8 VBs fractured and 5 VBs treated. The preoperative pain was assessed by the visual analog scale (VAS) and decreased from 54.9 to 40.4 pts after 2 months and 31.2 pts after 6 months. Accordingly, the QoL on the EQ-5D measure (-0.6 to 1) improved from 0.35 pts before surgery to 0.56 pts after 2 and to 0.68 pts after 6 months. The preoperative Beck Index (anterior height/posterior height) improved from a mean of 0.64 preoperative to 0.76 postoperative, remained stable at 2 months and slightly deteriorated to 0.72 at 6 months postoperatively. There were cement leakages in 26% of the fractured VBs and in 1.4% of the prophylactically cemented VBs; there were symptoms in 4.3%, and most of them were temporary hypotension and one pulmonary cement embolism that remained asymptomatic. The univariate regression model revealed a tendency for a reduced risk for new or refractures on radiographs (OR = 2.61, 95% CI 0.92-7.38, p = 0.12) and reoperations (OR = 2.9, 95% CI 0.94-8.949, p = 0.1) when prophylactic augmentation was performed. The final multivariate regression model revealed male patients to have an about three times higher refracture risk (radiographic) (OR = 2.78, p = 0.02) at 6 months after surgery. Patients with a lumbar index fracture had an about three to five times higher refracture/reoperation risk than patients with a thoracic (OR = 0.33/0.35, p = 0.009/0.01) or thoracolumbar (OR = 0.32/0.22, p = 0.099/0.01) index fracture.If routinely used, VP is a safe and efficacious treatment option for osteoporotic vertebral fractures with regard to pain relief and improvement of the QoL. Even segmental realignment can be partially achieved with proper patient positioning. Certain patient or fracture characteristics increase the risk for early radiographic refractures or new fractures, or a reoperation; a consequent prophylactic augmentation showed protective tendencies, but the study was underpowered for a final conclusion.The Swiss Federal Office of Public Health demanded a nationwide health technology assessment registry for cervical and lumbar total disc arthroplasty and for balloon kyphoplasty (BKP) to make a decision about reimbursement of these interventions.The goal of the SWISSspine registry is to generate evidence about the safety and effectiveness of these technologies. We report on results of patients with balloon kyphoplasty.Prospective, multicenter, observational case series.From March 2005 until June 2008, 331 interventions with 391 treated levels in 320 patients have been documented. 75.6% of patients were females with mean age of 74 years (range 43-95.2 years); mean age of males was 72.6 years (range 41.4-93 years).Surgeon-administered outcome instruments were primary intervention form for BKP, implant, and follow-up form; patient self-reported measures were Euroqol-5D, North American Spine Society, and a comorbidity questionnaire.Data were recorded perioperative, at 3 months, 1 year, and annually thereafter. Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used for comparison of preoperative to postoperative measurements. Multivariate regression was used for identifying factors with a significant influence on the outcome.Significant and clinically relevant reduction of back pain, improvement of quality of life (QoL), and reduction of pain killer consumption were seen in the 1-year follow-up. Improvement of preoperative segmental kyphosis was achieved in the majority of cases. There were three symptomatic cement extrusions with radiculopathy documented.Balloon kyphoplasty is a safe and effective treatment concerning pain reduction, QoL improvement, and pain killer consumption. The SWISSspine registry proved to be an excellent tool for evaluation of this new technology, and its results, in combination with an elaborate health technology assessment report, led to a permanent coverage of BKP by the basic health insurance.The use of patient reported outcome measures within cost-effectiveness analysis has become commonplace. However, specific measures are required that produce values, referred to as 'utilities', that are capable of generating quality adjusted life years. One such measure - the EQ-5D - has come under criticism due to the inherent limitations of its three-level response scales. In evaluations of chronic pain, the numerical pain rating scale (NPRS) which has eleven levels is routinely used which has a greater measurement range, but which can not be used in cost-effetiveness analyses. This study derived utility values for a series of EQ-5D health states that replace the pain dimensions with the NPRS, thereby allowing a potentially greater range of pain intensities to be captured and included in economic analyses.Interviews were undertaken with 100 member of the general population. Health state valuations were elicited using the time trade-off approach with a ten year time horizon. Additionally, respondents were asked where the EQ-5D response scale descriptors of moderate and extreme pain lay on the 11-point NPRS scale.625 valuations were undertaken across the study sample with the crude mean health state utilities showing a negative non-linear relationship with respect to increasing pain intensity. Relative to a NPRS of zero (NPRS0), the successive pain levels (NPRS1-10) had mean decrements in utility of 0.034, 0.043, 0.061, 0.121, 0.144, 0.252, 0.404, 0.575, 0.771 and 0.793, respectively. When respondents were asked to mark on the NPRS scale the EQ-5D pain descriptors of moderate and extreme pain, the median responses were '4' and '8', respectively.These results demonstrate the potential floor effect of the EQ-5D with respect to pain and provide estimates of health reduction associated with pain intensity described by the NPRS. These estimates are in excess of the decrements produced by an application of the EQ-5D scoring tariff for both the United States and the United Kingdom.A scheme to train paramedics to undertake a greater role in the care of older people following a call for an emergency ambulance was developed in a large city in the UK.To assess the cost effectiveness of the paramedic practitioner (PP) scheme compared with usual emergency care.A cluster randomised controlled trial was undertaken of PP compared with usual care. Weeks were allocated to the study group at random to the PP scheme either being active (intervention) or inactive (control). Resource use data were collected from routine sources, and from patient-completed questionnaires for events up to 28 days. EQ-5D data were also collected at 28 days.Whereas the intervention group received more PP contact time, it reduced the proportion of emergency department (ED) attendances (53.3% vs 84.0%) and time in the ED (126.6 vs 211.3 minutes). There was also some evidence of increased use of health services in the days following the incident for patients in the intervention group. Overall, total costs in the intervention group were 140 UK pounds lower when routine data were considered (p = 0.63). When the costs and QALY were considered simultaneously, PP had a greater than 95% chance of being cost effective at 20 000 UK pounds per QALY.Several changes in resource use are associated with the use of PP. Given these economic results in tandem with the clinical, operational and patient-related benefits, the wider implementation and evaluation of similar schemes should be considered.In solid organ transplantation (TX), perceived health status (PHS) is a relevant patient-reported outcome. For patients on TX waiting lists, PHS information is limited. The aim of this study was therefore to compare PHS of heart, liver, lung, and renal TX candidates.We used a cross-sectional descriptive design, including consecutive heart, liver, lung and renal TX candidates listed at a university hospital in Belgium. PHS was evaluated using the generic EuroQoL instrument, assessing patients' perceptions of their general PHS, and evaluating the health-related domains of mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Data were analyzed using multivariable ordinal logistic regression.The study included 314 TX candidates: 29 heart, 75 liver, 67 lung, and 143 renal. Analyses controlling for possible PHS-impacting variables (age, gender, marital status, education, comorbidities) yielded significantly disparate results between the four candidate groups. Renal candidates reported best PHS, followed by liver candidates, whereas heart and lung candidates, whose score differences were not significant, had worst PHS.The EQ-5D seems to be a valuable tool to identify differences in health-related problems in the four different organ candidate groups. The results can be used to create intervention programs focusing on effective clinical management for these patients pre- and post-transplant.The primary characteristics of restless legs syndrome (RLS), including severe sleep disorders, restlessness in the evening and discomfort while at rest, have substantial impact on normal daily activities. Because of the high prevalence of RLS in the general population, it is necessary to evaluate the economic impact of RLS. To determine the health economic burden of patients with RLS in Germany. A total of 519 RLS patients (mean age: 65.2 +/- 11.1 years) in different stages of disease were recruited in five health centres (university hospitals, district hospitals and office-based neurologists) by applying the diagnostic criteria of the International Restless Legs Syndrome Study Group. A questionnaire was administered that assessed healthcare resource consumption as well as socioeconomic, demographic, clinical and health status. In addition, the International RLS severity scale (IRLS), Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), EQ-5D and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) were addressed in the assessment. Direct and indirect costs (euro, year 2006 values) were derived from various German economic resources and calculated from the perspective of the healthcare and transfer payment providers. We calculated average total costs over the 3-month observation period. It was determined that average total costs were euro2090 for this period. The average direct medical and non-medical costs from the perspective of the health insurance provider were determined to be euro780, with euro300 attributed to drug costs and euro354 to hospitalization costs. Average total indirect costs amounted to euro1308 and were calculated based on productivity loss, using the human capital approach. As cost-driving factors we identified disease severity according to the IRLS (p < 0.01) and ESS (p < 0.04). Health-related quality of life was determined to be substantially affected by RLS; the mean EQ-5D visual analogue scale (VAS) was 55.6, considerably lower than that of the age-matched general population. RLS places a notable financial burden on society as well as on patients and their families. More detailed studies are needed to evaluate the health economic impact of this disorder.The aim of the study was to investigate the efficacy of the antibiotic minocycline as a drug treatment in patients with Multiple-System-Atrophy Parkinson-type (MSA-P). Sixty-three patients were randomized to minocycline 200 mg/d (n = 32) or a matching placebo (n = 31). The primary outcome variable was the change in the value of the motor score of the Unified Multiple-System-Atrophy Rating-Scale (UMSARSII) from baseline to 48 weeks. Secondary outcome variables included subscores and individual Parkinsonian symptoms as determined by the UMSARS and the Unified-Parkinson's-Disease Rating-Scale (UPDRS). Health-related quality of life (HrQoL) was assessed using the EQ-5D and SF-12. "Progression rate" was assumed to be reflected in the change in motor function over 48 weeks. At 24 weeks and 48 weeks of follow-up, there was a significant deterioration in motor scores in both groups, but neither the change in UMSARSII nor in UPDRSIII differed significantly between treatment groups, i.e. "progression rate" was considered to be similar in both treatment arms. HrQoL did not differ among the two treatment arms. In a small subgroup of patients (n = 8; minocycline = 3, placebo = 5)[(11)C](R)-PK11195-PET was performed. The three patients in the minocycline group had an attenuated mean increase in microglial activation as compared to the placebo group (P = 0.07) and in two of them individually showed decreased [11C](R)-PK11195 binding actually decreased. These preliminary PET-data suggest that minocycline may interfere with microglial activation. The relevance of this observation requires further investigation. This prospective, 48 week, randomized, double-blind, multinational study failed to show a clinical effect of minocycline on symptom severity as assessed by clinical motor function.Malignant gastric outlet obstruction can be treated by means of enteral stenting or surgical gastrojejunalanatomosis. We evaluated in a prospective and multicentre study the efficacy of the enteral stent on food intake, the quality of life impact, and the relationship between efficacy and determined clinical and technical parameters.Seventy one patients affected by symptoms arising from gastroduodenal obstruction due to malignant tumors, with criteria of irresecability, metastatic disease or very high surgical risk, were treated by means of self expanding metal stents. We used the GOOSS index to evaluate efficacy, and the Euro Qol-5D index to evaluate quality of life.Before stenting patients with GOOSS 0 and 1 were 68 (98.5%). After stenting patients with GOOSS 2 and 3 (semisolid and solid food) were 58 (84,1%) (P<.0001). The Euro Qol-5D index measured before and a month after stenting were 10.17 and 10.04 respectively (P=.6). The median survival was 91 days (9-552). The enteral stents for localised tumors in the duodenum and the gastrojejunalanastomosis were effective in 26 patients (70.2%) and 13 patients respectively (86.6%), while the enteral stents of tumors in the antrum were effective in only 5 patients (29.4%).The palliative treatment of malignant gastric outlet obstruction with a uncovered metal stent produces a significant improvement of oral food intake and maintains the overall quality of life index. The antral localization is associated with a lower efficacy of the procedure.The impact of Vacuum-assisted breast biopsy (VABB, 11-Gauge) upon Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) remains an open field. This study aims to: i) assess short-term (4 days after VABB) responses in terms of HRQoL after VABB, ii) evaluate long-term (18 months after VABB) responses, if any, and iii) examine whether these responses are modified by a variety of possible predictors (anthropometric, sociodemographic, lifestyle habits, breast-related parameters, reproductive history, VABB-related features and complications, seasonality).This study included 102 eligible patients undergoing VABB and having benign lesions. A variable number of cores (24-96 cores) has been excised. HRQoL was assessed by EQ-5D and SF-36(R) questionnaires: i) in the morning of the VABB procedure day (baseline measurement), ii) four days after VABB (early post-biopsy measurement) and iii) 18 months after VABB (late post-biopsy measurement). Statistical analysis comprised two steps: i. evaluation of differences in EQ-5D/SF-36 dimensions and calculated scores (baseline versus early post-biopsy measurement and baseline versus late post-biopsy measurement) and ii. assessment of predictors through multivariate linear, logistic, ordinal logistic regression, as appropriate.At baseline patients presented with considerable anxiety (EQ-5D anxiety/depression dimension, EQ-5D TTO/VAS indices, SF-36 Mental Health dimension). At the early post-biopsy measurement women exhibited deterioration in Usual Activities (EQ-5D) and Role Functioning-Physical dimensions. At the late measurement women exhibited pain (EQ-5D pain/discomfort and SF-36 Bodily Pain), deterioration in Physical Functioning (SF-36 PF) and overall SF-36 Physical Component Scale (PCS). Mastalgia, older age and lower income emerged as significant predictors for baseline anxiety, whereas seasonality modified early activities-related responses. Pain seemed idiosyncratic.The HRQoL profile of patients suggests that VABB exerts effects prior to its performance at a psychological level, immediately after its performance at a functioning-physical level and entails long-term effects associated with pain.Multidisciplinary strategies for the management of heart failure (HF) improve outcomes. We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of noninvasive home telemonitoring in ambulatory patients with HF already included in a structured multidisciplinary HF program.Prospective intervention study with before/after comparison design of an interactive telemedicine platform in HF patients, randomized 1:1 into two groups: A) Motiva System with educational videos, motivational messages, and questionnaires, and B) Motiva System + self monitoring of blood pressure, heart rate, and weight. Hospitalizations were compared over 12 months prior to and post study inclusion. Quality of life was evaluated using the generic EuroQoL visual analogue scale and the specific questionnaire Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire.There were 92 patients included (71% male; 66.3 ± 11.5 years; 71% ischemic aetiology). During real-time telemonitoring over 11.8 months (interquartile range 8.6-12), 14,730 questionnaires were administered with 89% median response rate. Hospitalizations for HF decreased by 67.8% (P = .010) and for other cardiac causes by 57.6% (P = .028). The number of days in hospital for HF decreased by 73.3% (P =.036), without statistically significant differences between groups, and for other cardiac causes by 82.9% (P =.008). The perception of quality of life improved significantly both for the generic scale (P < .001) and for the HF specific questionnaire (P=.005).HF patients who used an interactive telehealth system with motivational support tools at home spent less time in hospital and felt their quality of life had significantly improved. No significant differences were observed between groups.Patients with neuropathic pain (NeuP) experience substantially lower health-related quality of life (HRQoL) than the general population. The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to test the hypothesis that NeuP is associated with low levels of health utility. A structured search of electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library and CINAHL) was undertaken. Reference lists of retrieved reports were also reviewed. Studies reporting utility single-index measures (preference based) in NeuP were included. Random effects meta-analysis was used to pool EQ-5D index utility estimates across NeuP conditions. The association of utilities and pre-defined factors (NeuP condition, patient age, sex, duration and severity of pain and method of utility scoring) was examined using meta-regression. Twenty-four studies reporting health utility values in patients with NeuP were included in the review. Weighted pooled utility score across the studies varied from a mean of 0.15 for failed back surgery syndrome to 0.61 for post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic neuropathy. Although there was substantial heterogeneity (P<0.0001) across studies, we found little variation in utility as a function of patient and study characteristics. The single exception was a significant relationship (P<0.0001) between increasing neuropathic pain severity and a reduction in utility. This study confirms the hypothesis that patients with NeuP experience low utilities and therefore low HRQoL. However, the contribution of non-NeuP co-morbidity remains unclear. Neuropathic pain severity emerged as a primary predictor of the negative health impact of NeuP.The purpose of this paper is to assess quality of life in relation to wellbeing among Lebanese nursing home elderly residents. The study attempts to understand the impact of structures, processes and skills on elderly health status.In this paper, 220 normally functioning elderly respondents from 33 nursing homes were studied. A quasi-experimental approach measured psychological and health-related factors using the Geriatric Depression Scale, Activity of Daily Living, EuroQol EQ-5D and the Mini-Nutritional Assessment (MNA) instruments.A relatively high level of mild depression among elderly residents and a lack of mobility were found. Generally, normally functioning elderly residents were well nourished and had moderate daily activity levels.The study is original in the sense that it assesses elderly residents' psychological and physical health status in relation to institutional structures, processes, and skills.Evidence of how health-related quality of life (HRQOL) changes following laparoscopic and open colorectal surgery in the first 6 weeks of postoperative recovery is needed to inform cost-effectiveness evaluations.Pragmatic prospective cohort study design. Consecutive patients requiring elective colorectal surgery were allocated to either laparoscopic or open surgery by administrative staff in a district general hospital in England, 2006-2007. Patients completed two validated, generic measures of HRQOL at baseline (preoperatively) and on multiple occasions in the first 6 weeks postsurgery using diaries (EuroQol five-dimensional [EQ-5D] questionnaire: 16 times; short-form 36 health survey [SF-36]: 4 times; HRQOL was compared between groups at each time point, and overall using repeated-measures analysis.Of 201 consecutive patients recruited, 32 (15.1%) were unable to complete diaries. Of the remaining 169 patients, 120 (71%) returned completed diaries at 28 days and 105 (62.1%) at 42 days. There was no difference in preoperative HRQOL scores between surgical groups, but the postoperative EQ-5D questionnaire and SF-36 scores were significantly higher in the laparoscopic group (EQ-5D questionnaire P = 0.005, SF-36 P = 0.007). Subgroup analysis showed that patients with a stoma have worse HRQOL than those without. HRQOL did not differ between the laparoscopic and open stoma patients.This study presents unique prospective data demonstrating that laparoscopic surgery confers HRQOL benefits for patients in the early recovery period following colorectal surgery, compared with open surgery. Consideration of these data in the context of a cost-effectiveness analysis will be reported separately.The burden of anogenital warts will be a determining factor when making decisions about the type of human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine to be used (bivalent or quadrivalent) and whether to vaccinate males. We conducted a multicenter prospective study to (1) describe the impact of anogenital warts on quality of life and (2) estimate the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) lost due to anogenital warts.Between September 2006 and February 2008, 272 patients with a first or recurrent episode of anogenital warts were recruited from the clinical practices of 42 physicians across Canada. Quality of life was measured at recruitment, and 2 and 6 months later with the EuroQol, Short Form-12, short Spielberg State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, and HPV impact profile. The duration of an episode and QALYs lost due to anogenital warts were estimated among 51 incident cases recruited within 90 days of disease onset.Anogenital warts had a significant impact on the quality of life. This negative impact was similar for first and recurrent episodes, and lasted as long as lesions persisted. Anogenital warts had the greatest negative impact on usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression, and on self-image, sexual activity, and partner issues and possible transmission. The median duration of a first anogenital wart episode amongst incident cases was 125 days and resulted in QALYs lost of 0.017 to 0.041, which is equivalent to 6 to 15 days of healthy life lost.The burden of anogenital warts is substantial and should be considered by physicians and public health officials when making recommendations about HPV vaccination..Vaccination against herpes zoster is being considered in many countries. We conducted a multicentre prospective study to describe the impact of herpes zoster and postherpetic neuralgia on health-related quality of life.From October 2005 to July 2006, 261 outpatients aged 50 years or older with herpes zoster were recruited from the clinical practices of 83 physicians within 14 days after rash onset. The Zoster Brief Pain Inventory was used to measure severity of pain and interference with activities of daily living because of pain. The EuroQol EQ-5D assessment tool was used to measure quality of life. These outcomes were assessed at recruitment and on days 7, 14, 21, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150 and 180 following recruitment.Acute herpes zoster interfered in all health domains, especially sleep (64% of participants), enjoyment of life (58%) and general activities (53%). The median duration of pain was 32.5 days. The median duration of interference with activities of daily living because of pain varied between 27 and 30 days. Overall, 24% of the participants had postherpetic neuralgia (pain for more than 90 days after rash onset). Anxiety and depression, enjoyment of life, mood and sleep were most frequently affected during the postherpetic neuralgia period. The mean EQ-5D score was 0.59 at enrolment and remained at 0.67 at all follow-up points among participants who reported clinically significant pain.These data support the need for preventive strategies and additional early intervention to reduce the burden of herpes zoster and postherpetic neuralgia.Data on the impact of abnormal cervical smear results on health-related quality of life (HrQoL) are scarce. We aimed to (i) prospectively assess the HrQoL of women who were informed of an abnormal smear result; (ii) identify predictors of greater negative psychosocial impact of an abnormal result; and (iii) prospectively estimate the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) lost following an abnormal result.Between 08/2006 and 08/2008, 492 women with an abnormal result and 460 women with a normal result, frequency matched for age and clinic, were recruited across Canada. HrQoL was measured at recruitment and 4 and 12 weeks later with the EuroQol, Short Form-12, short Spielberg State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) and HPV Impact Profile. Three blocks of potential predictors of higher psychosocial impact were tested by hierarchical modeling: (i) socio-demographics; (ii) sexual activity; and (iii) smear result severity, communication, and understanding.Receiving an abnormal result significantly increased anxiety (STAI mean difference between both groups = 8.3). Initial anxiety decreased over time for the majority of women. However, 35% of women had clinically meaningful anxiety at 12 weeks (i.e. STAI scores ≥0.5 standard deviation of the controls). These women reported a lower socio-economic level, did not completely understand the information about their result and perceived themselves at higher risk of cancer. QALY lost following an abnormal result were between 0.007 and 0.009.Receiving an abnormal smear has a statistically significant and clinically meaningful negative impact on mental health. However, this negative impact subsides after 12 weeks for the majority of women.The EQ-5D has been extensively used to assess patient utility in trials of new treatments within the cardiovascular field. The aims of this study were to review evidence of the validity and reliability of the EQ-5D, and to summarise utility scores based on the use of the EQ-5D in clinical trials and in studies of patients with cardiovascular disease.A structured literature search was conducted using keywords related to cardiovascular disease and EQ-5D. Original research studies of patients with cardiovascular disease that reported EQ-5D results and its measurement properties were included.Of 147 identified papers, 66 met the selection criteria, with 10 studies reporting evidence on validity or reliability and 60 reporting EQ-5D responses (VAS or self-classification). Mean EQ-5D index-based scores ranged from 0.24 (SD 0.39) to 0.90 (SD 0.16), while VAS scores ranged from 37 (SD 21) to 89 (no SD reported). Stratification of EQ-5D index scores by disease severity revealed that scores decreased from a mean of 0.78 (SD 0.18) to 0.51 (SD 0.21) for mild to severe disease in heart failure patients and from 0.80 (SD 0.05) to 0.45 (SD 0.22) for mild to severe disease in angina patients.The published evidence generally supports the validity and reliability of the EQ-5D as an outcome measure within the cardiovascular area. This review provides utility estimates across a range of cardiovascular subgroups and treatments that may be useful for future modelling of utilities and QALYs in economic evaluations within the cardiovascular area.Although many therapies are used in the management of neuropathic pain (NeP) due to polyneuropathy (PN), few comparison studies exist. We performed a prospective, non-randomized, unblended, efficacy comparison of the serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor venlafaxine, as either monotherapy or adjuvant therapy, with a first-line medication for NeP, gabapentin, in patients with PN-related NeP. VAS pain scores were assessed after 3 and 6 months in intervention groups and in a cohort of patients receiving no pharmacotherapy. In a total of 223 patients, we analyzed pain quantity and quality (visual analogue scale [VAS] score, Brief Pain Inventory [BPI]), quality of life and health status measures [EuroQol 5 Domains, EQ-5D], Medical Outcomes Sleep Study Scale [MOSSS], Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale [HADS] and Short Form 36 Health Survey [SF-36]) after 6 months of therapy. Significant improvements in VAS pain scores occurred for all treatment groups after 6 months. Improvements in aspects of daily life and anxiety were identified in all treatment groups. Our data suggest that monotherapy or adjuvant therapy with venlafaxine is comparable to gabapentin for NeP management. We advocate for head-to-head, randomized, double-blinded studies of current NeP therapies.Efficacy of the long-acting catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT)-inhibitor, tolcapone on sleep quality was studied in 61 patients with advanced PD in a prospective open-label multicenter non-interventional trial. Main outcome measures were the PD sleep scale (PDSS). Further outcome measures were global clinical impression of change (GCI-C), daily off-time, activities of daily living (UPDRS part II), quality of life (EuroQoL-5D), Epworth sleepiness scale (ESS) and adverse events reports. All efficiency and safety parameters were assessed 4 weeks after the switch to tolcapone and compared to baseline. The mean±S.D. daily dose of tolcapone was 294.2±36.9 mg/day at the final assessment. The mean PDSS scores significantly improved from 21.6±8.1 at baseline to 16.3±7.7 at final assessment (p<0.0001). Consistently, daytime sleepiness was significantly reduced as reflected by lower scores on the ESS (p=0.0057). Further efficacy parameters including GCI-C, daily off-time, activities of daily living, and quality of life were also significantly improved. Tolcapone was in general well tolerated and safe. This observational study provides first evidence that tolcapone improves sleep quality and reduces daytime sleepiness in patients suffering from advanced PD.The prevalence of health risk behaviours is growing amongst South African employees. Health risk behaviours have been identified as a major contributor to reduced health related quality of life (HRQoL) and the increased prevalence of non-communicable diseases. Worksite wellness programmes promise to promote behaviour changes amongst employees and to improve their HRQoL. The aim of this study was to evaluate the short-term effects of an employee wellness programme on HRQoL, health behaviour change, body mass index (BMI) and absenteeism amongst clothing and textile manufacturing employees.The study used a randomised control trial design. The sample consisted of 80 subjects from three clothing manufacturing companies in Cape Town, South Africa. The experimental group was subjected to a wellness programme based on the principles of cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) as well as weekly supervised exercise classes over six weeks. The control group received a once-off health promotion talk and various educational pamphlets, with no further intervention. Measurements were recorded at baseline and at six weeks post-intervention. Outcome measures included the EQ-5D, Stanford Exercise Behaviours Scale, body mass index and absenteeism.Data was analysed with the Statistica-8 software program. Non-parametric tests were used to evaluate the differences in the medians between the two groups and to determine the level of significance. The Sign test was used to determine the within group changes. The Mann-Whitney U test was used to determine the difference between the two groups.At six weeks post intervention the experimental group (39 subjects) demonstrated improvement in almost every parameter. In contrast, apart from an overall decrease in time off work and a reduction in BMI for all study participants, there was no significant change noted in the behaviour of the control group (41 subjects). Seventy percent of the experimental group had improved HRQoL EQ-5D VAS scores post intervention, indicating improved perceived HRQoL. In comparison, only 58% of the control group had improved HRQoL EQ-5D VAS scores post intervention. There was no significant difference between the two groups at baseline or at six weeks post intervention.An employee wellness programme based on the principles of CBT combined with weekly aerobic exercise class was beneficial in improving the perceived HRQoL and changing health-related behaviours of clothing manufacturing employees. However, it cannot be concluded that the EWP was more effective than the once off health promotion talk as no significant changes were noted between the two groups at 6-weeks post intervention.This trial has been registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (trial registration number NCT01625039).Although there are multiple reports documenting successful outcomes with operative treatment of superior labrum anterior posterior (SLAP) tears, there are few reports on the results of nonoperative treatment.Nonoperative treatment of SLAP tears will result in improved outcomes over pretreatment values using validated, patient-derived outcome instruments.Case series; Level of evidence, 4.A total of 371 patients with a diagnosis of labral tear at our institution were mailed a questionnaire that included the following validated, patient-derived outcome assessment instruments: Short Form 36 (SF-36), European Quality of Life measure (EuroQol), visual analog pain scale (VAS), American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) score, and simple shoulder test (SST). Sixty-six surveys did not reach the patients because of incorrect addresses, and 50 surveys were returned, for a 16.4% (50 of 305) response rate. Of the patients with a clinically documented SLAP lesion (positive O'Brien test, pain at the bicipital groove, and positive magnetic resonance imaging) and sufficient follow-up data (minimum 1 year), 39 patients who met the criteria returned the survey and 19 had nonoperative treatment. Twenty patients (51%) from the overall surveyed group were considered nonoperative treatment failures and had arthroscopic surgical reconstruction. Nonoperative treatment consisted of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and a physical therapy protocol focused on scapular stabilization exercises and posterior capsular stretching. Statistical analysis was performed using the paired t test; values of P < .05 were considered significant.At an average follow-up of 3.1 years, function improved significantly (ASES function 30.8 to 45.0 [P < .001]; ASES total 58.5 to 84.7 [P = .001], SST 8.3 to 11.0 [P = .02]) in those patients with successful nonoperative treatment. Quality of life also improved after treatment (EuroQol 0.76 to 0.89, P = .009). Pain relief was significant, as VAS pain scores decreased from 4.5 to 2.1 (P = .043). All patients with successful nonoperative treatment returned to sports. Seventy-one percent of all athletes were able to return to preparticipation levels, but only 66% of overhead athletes returned to their sport at the same or higher level.Using validated, patient-derived outcome instruments, the present study shows that successful nonoperative treatment of superior labral tears results in improved pain relief and functional outcomes compared with pretreatment assessments. Although 20 patients (51%) in this group elected surgery and may be considered nonoperative treatment failures, those patients with successful nonoperative treatment had significant improvements in pain, function, and quality of life. Return to sports was comparable with patients with successful surgical treatment, although return to overhead sports at the same level was difficult to achieve (66%). Based on these findings, a trial of nonoperative treatment may be considered in patients with the diagnosis of isolated superior labral tear. In overhead athletes and in those patients where pain relief and functional improvement is not achieved, surgical treatment should be considered.The central purpose of pulmonary rehabilitation is to reduce morbidity by improving functional capacity through exercise. It is still unknown if improvements in functional capacity are maintained in the long-term and if this leads to increased physical activity levels as measured by a free-living activity monitor. The hypothesis of this study was that pulmonary rehabilitation would lead to a sustained increase in standard outcome measures and in daily physical activity.A prospective study of 47 subjects with COPD was performed, registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (Clinical Trial Number NCT 0112943). The primary outcome was a maintained improvement in standard outcome measures with a secondary aim of an increase in daily physical activity. A convenient sample of the cohort (n = 17) was re-evaluated at a third time point at 1 year.A seven week hospital based outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation program led to a significant reduction in total energy expenditure (p < 0.044) and breathlessness (Borg, p < 0.011) and improved exercise capacity (ISWT, p > 0.001, 6MWT, p > 0.002) PiMax (p > 0.007) and quality of life scores (SGRQ, p > 0.001, EQ5D, 0.025). However, pulmonary rehabilitation did not significantly change the average number of daily steps taken, time spent sedentary activity, METs consumed or daily physical activity. Indeed, all of the standard and freeliving values had returned towards the baseline value at 1 year.These findings show that while pulmonary rehabilitation increased exercise capacity this was not transmitted into increased daily physical activity. Hence, alternative methods to alter/affect behavioural change need to be addressed.Measuring Health Related Quality of Life has become more and more important in evaluating patients with peripheral arterial disease. This prospective longitudinal survey aimed to investigate health related quality of life over time in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) undergoing percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) between December 2005 and June 2008. Health Related Quality of life was assessed using the Claudication Scale (CLAU-S) and EQ5D and the Sense of Coherence Scale was used to estimate the patients' sense of coherence. The findings of this study shows that the total CLAU-S score was improved both at one-month follow-up (p < 0.0001) and one-year follow-up (p < 0.0001) compared to baseline. There were significant differences regarding all five dimensions: every day life, pain, social life, illness-specific fears and psychological wellbeing. The EQ5D computed by index improved significantly both at one-month follow-up (p = 0.0006) and one-year follow-up (p = 0.0019) compared to baseline. Differences were found between the groups with low and moderate sense of coherence (p = 0.0169) as well as between the groups with low and high sense of coherence (p = 0.0208) regarding health related quality of life (HRQoL). This study showed that PTA improves HRQoL among individuals suffering from PAD and that the effect is sustainable over time. For more accurate results, a disease-specific instrument should be used to evaluate HRQoL.The purpose of this study was to describe the health-related quality-of-life (QoL) in patients after elective surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) compared to a normal population and to study the association between QoL and number of years since surgery.All Danish men who underwent elective surgery for AAA at the age of 65 or more in the period from 1989-2007 in Denmark were invited to participate in the survey. Of 722 patients, 375 were alive and 328 (87%) responded. The instruments EQ-5D (European Quality of life), EQ-VAS and SF-12 (Short Form Health Survey) were applied for measuring health-related QoL. Multiple regression analysis was used to study the association between QoL and number of years since AAA surgery.A significantly poorer QoL was found in patients having had AAA surgery compared to the normal population as measured with the SF-12 and the EQ-VAS, but not with EQ-5D. A negative association between QoL and years following surgery was found with EQ-VAS and SF-12 (PCS), but not with the other instruments.Factors such as selection bias because of mortality and non-response may have resulted in an over-estimate of the QoL in patients having had AAA surgery, thus the difference in QoL compared to the normal population was probably under-estimated. The cross-section design was inefficient for the study of the association between QoL and years since surgery, and EQ-5D may be an insensitive instrument for measuring QoL in AAA patients after surgery.The main limitation of the study was the cross-sectional design. Males with a higher risk of death were under-represented in the sample.A poorer quality-of-life was found in patients having had elective AAA surgery compared to the normal population.Quality of life is recognized as an important additional outcome measure in clinical trials and health economic evaluations. The EQ-5D is an important generic health outcome instrument often used for economic evaluations as a complement with disease-specific outcome measures. In this study quality of life data was assessed using the EQ-5D-Y (new EQ-5D version for children and adolescents) and the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire (CFQ). The objective of the study is to evaluate the cross-sectional validity of the EQ-5D-Y as a generic health outcome instrument in children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis in Germany.In 2006 a multi-centre study was conducted in four cystic fibrosis centres in Germany. Quality of life data from 96 patients between eight and seventeen years was collected using the EQ-5D-Y as a generic outcome instrument and the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire (CFQ) as a disease-specific instrument. Results of both instruments were compared by statistical analyses using Spearman's rank correlations.44.6% of the patients stated that they had no problems in any of the EQ-5D-Y dimensions. Several low to high correlations between separate dimensions and the visual analogue scale of the EQ-5D-Y and the different scales of the CFQ for children, their parents and adolescents can be presented in this paper. Looking at the five EQ-5D-Y dimensions the highest correlation (rS = 0.625, p = 0.01) was found between the dimension 'mobility' and the CFQ scale 'physical functioning' in adolescent patients. The overall highest correlation was found between the 'subjective health perception' and the visual analogue scale (rS = 0.744, p = 0.01) in adolescent patients older than 13 years.The EQ-5D-Y can be considered a cross-sectional valid generic health outcome instrument which reflects differences in health according to the progression of the life-long chronic disease cystic fibrosis.To compare improvement in quality of life (QoL) and symptoms' relief in vertebral compression fractures (VCF) due to osteoporosis for patients undergoing balloon kyphoplasty (BKP) to those undergoing non-surgical management (NSM) in a real-life setting.In this prospective, comparative study, quality-of-life was evaluated in eight centres in Germany between 2005 and 2008, for 82 patients, with the EQ-5D questionnaire, and the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ).BKP patients demonstrated a statistical and clinical significant higher improvement in EQ-5D than NSM patients, 0.44 and 0.25 from baseline to 12 months, respectively. Moreover, BKP patients showed a clinically relevant improvement in the RMDQ by 6.25 from baseline to 12 months, whereas NSM patients had no significant improvement in the RMDQ.This study demonstrates for VCF patients that in real-life quality of life for BKP patients improves more than for NSM patients; confirming the results of a large randomized clinical trial.Diabetes mellitus confers an increased risk of hip fractures. There is a limited knowledge of how the outcome after a hip fracture in patients with diabetes affect Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL). The primary aim of this study was to evaluate HRQoL. Secondary aims were reoperation rate, complications and functions in patients with diabetes followed for 2 years after a hip fracture.Out of 2133 patients diabetes was present in 234 patients (11%). Main outcome measurements were HRQoL evaluated with EuroQoL 5-Dindex score, reoperation rate, surgical and medical complications, function as walking ability, daily activities, living condition and pain.Preoperatively, patients with diabetes mellitus had more pain (p=0.044), co-morbidities, reduced health status (p=0.001) and more often used a walking frame (p=0.014) than patients without diabetes, whereas Katz ADL index, cognition and body mass index did not differ. There was no difference in fracture type, surgical method or reoperation between the two groups or between patients with insulin treated or oral treated diabetes. The EQ-5Dindex score decreased from 0.64 at admission to 0.45 at 4 months, 0.49 at 12 months and 0.51 at 24 months with similar results for patients with and without diabetes. During the first postoperative year there was not more medical complications among patients with diabetes, however cardiac (p=0.023) and renal failure (p=0.032) were more frequent in patients with diabetes at 24 months. Patients with diabetes more often had severe hip pain at 4 months (p=0.031). At 12 months more diabetic patients were living independently (p=0.034). There was no difference in walking ability, ADL and living condition between the groups at 24 months.The findings of this study indicate that patients with diabetes mellitus had more pain, co-morbidities, reduced health status preoperatively than patients without diabetes. Hip fracture patients with diabetes mellitus have more hip pain at 4 months. Cardiac and renal failure was more frequent in patients with diabetes at 24 months but otherwise we found a comparable re-operation rate, function and deterioration of Health Related Quality of Life as patients without diabetes within 2 years after a hip fracture.  Failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS) patients experience pain, functional disability, and reduced health-related quality of life (HRQoL) despite anatomically successful surgery. Examining sub-dimensions of health outcomes measures provides insight into patient well-being.  The international multicenter PROCESS trial collected detailed HRQoL (EuroQol-5D; Short-Form 36) and function (Oswestry Disability Index) information on 100 FBSS patients.  At baseline, patients reported moderate-to-severe leg and back pain adversely affecting all dimensions of function and HRQoL. Compared with conventional medical management alone, patients also receiving spinal cord stimulation (SCS) reported superior pain relief, function, and HRQoL at six months on overall and most sub-component scores. The majority of these improvements with SCS were sustained at 24 months. Nonetheless, 36-40% of patients experienced ongoing marked disability (standing, lifting) and HRQoL problems (pain/discomfort).  Longer-term patient management and research must focus on these refractory FBSS patients with persisting poor function and HRQoL outcomes.Dysplasia of the hip increases the risk of secondary degenerative change and subsequent total hip replacement. Here we report on age at diagnosis of dysplasia, previous treatment, and quality of life for patients born after 1967 and registered with a total hip replacement due to dysplasia in the Norwegian Arthroplasty Register. We also used the medical records to validate the diagnosis reported by the orthopedic surgeon to the register.Subjects born after January 1, 1967 and registered with a primary total hip replacement in the Norwegian Arthroplasty Register during the period 1987-2007 (n = 713) were included in the study. Data on hip symptoms and quality of life (EQ-5D) were collected through questionnaires. Elaborating information was retrieved from the medical records.540 of 713 patients (76%) (corresponding to 634 hips) returned the questionnaires and consented for additional information to be retrieved from their medical records. Hip dysplasia accounted for 163 of 634 hip replacements (26%), 134 of which were in females (82%). Median age at time of diagnosis was 7.8 (0-39) years: 4.4 years for females and 22 years for males. After reviewing accessible medical records, the diagnosis of hip dysplasia was confirmed in 132 of 150 hips (88%).One quarter of hip replacements performed in patients aged 40 or younger were due to an underlying hip dysplasia, which, in most cases, was diagnosed during late childhood. The dysplasia diagnosis reported to the register was correct for 88% of the hips.A primary arthroplasty constitutes a standard procedure in the treatment of patients with displaced fractures of the femoral neck. Although dislocation of the prosthesis remains a significant clinical problem, there are no previous reports on its influence on health-related quality of life (HRQoL). We analysed how a dislocation of the hip arthroplasty influenced the patients' HRQoL.In total 319 consecutive patients with a displaced fracture of the femoral neck treated with a primary arthroplasty were included in a prospective cohort study. We used a mixed-effects model regression analysis to evaluate factors of importance for HRQoL (EQ-5D(index) score) during the first 12 months following surgery.A dislocation of the arthroplasty occurred in 21 of the 319 patients (7%), 8 of whom had a single dislocation and 13 recurrent dislocations. At 4 months, the EQ-5D(index) score displayed a significantly worse outcome for patients with recurrent dislocations compared to patients with no dislocation (P = 0.001), and a trend towards a worse outcome for patients with a single dislocation (P = 0.08). At 12 months, the mean EQ-5D(index) score of patients with recurrent dislocations was still substantially lower (P = 0.001), while the EQ-5D(index) score for patients with a single dislocation had returned to a level similar to that of patients with no dislocation. Our analysis of the EQ-5D dimensions indicates that the difference was mainly due to perceived difficulties in self-care and usual activities and increased problems with anxiety/depression.A recurrent dislocation of the hip arthroplasty in the treatment of patients with femoral neck fractures seems to result in a persisting deterioration in the HRQoL, while patients with a single dislocation seem to experience only a temporary deterioration.Lifestyle interventions reduce cardiovascular risk and risk of diabetes mellitus, but reports on long-term effects on quality of life (QOL) and health care utilization are rare. We investigated the impact of a primary health care-based lifestyle intervention program on QOL and cost-effectiveness over 3 years.A total of 151 men and women, aged 18 to 65 years, at moderate to high risk for cardiovascular disease, were randomly assigned to either lifestyle intervention with standard care or standard care alone. Intervention consisted of supervised exercise sessions and diet counseling for 3 months, followed by regular group meetings over a 3-year period. Change in QOL was measured with EuroQol (5-dimensional EuroQol-5D [EQ-5D] and EuroQol-VAS [EQ-VAS]), the 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), and the 6-dimensional Short-Form 6D (SF-6D). The health economic evaluation was performed from a societal view and a treatment perspective. In a cost-utility analysis, the costs, gained quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and savings in health care were considered. Cost-effectiveness was also described using the net monetary benefit method.Significant differences between the groups over the 3-year period were shown in the EQ-VAS (P = .002), SF-6D (P = .01), and SF-36 (P = .04) physical component summary but not in the EQ-5D (P = .24) or SF-36 (P = .37) mental component summary. The net savings were $47 per participant. Costs per gained QALY, savings not counted, were $1668 to $4813. Probabilities of cost-effectiveness were 89% to 100% when the amount of $50,000 was used as stakeholder's threshold of willingness to pay for a gained QALY.Lifestyle intervention in primary care improves QOL and is highly cost-effective in relation to standard care. Trial Registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00486941.The main aim of this paper is to give an overview on the quality of life, health care utilisation and costs of dementia in Hungary.A cross-sectional non-population based study of 88 consecutive dementia patients and their caregivers was conducted in three GP practices and one outpatient setting in 2008. Resource Utilization in Dementia (RUD), Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and quality of life (EQ-5D) were surveyed and cost calculations were performed. Costs of patients living at home were estimated by the current bottom-up cost-of-illness calculations, while costs of nursing home patients were considered by official reimbursement to determine the disease burden from a societal viewpoint.The mean age of the patients was 77.4 years (SD=9.2), 59% of them were female. The mean MMSE score was 16.70 (SD=7.24), and the mean EQ-5D score was 0.40 (SD=0.34). The average annual cost of dementia was 6,432 Euros per patient living at home and 6,086 Euros per patient living in nursing homes. For the whole demented population (based on EuroCoDe data) we estimated total annual costs of 846.8 million Euros; of which 55% are direct costs, 9% indirect costs and 36% informal care cost. Compared to acute myocardial infarction the total disease burden of dementia is 26.3 times greater.This is the first study investigating resource utilisation, costs, and quality of life of dementia patients in the Central and Eastern European region. Compared to the general population of Hungary EQ-5D values of the demented patients are lower in all age groups. Dementia related costs are much lower in Hungary compared to Western European countries. There is no remarkable difference between the costs of demented patients living at home and in nursing homes, from the societal point of view.Hemiarthroplasty is the preferred treatment for displaced femoral neck fractures (DFNF) in elderly patients. The use of uncemented stems remains controversial and issues regarding inferior fixation in osteoporotic bone, implant-related pain and decreased mobility have discouraged their use. There is limited evidence for the use of modern uncemented femoral stems in the treatment of DFNF, and we wished to investigate the clinical and radiographic performance of an uncemented hydroxyapatite coated hemiarthroplasty at 2-year follow-up.We included 97 consecutive patients who had an uncemented, hydroxyapatite coated hemiarthroplasty (Corail, Depuy) inserted during a 1-year period. Due to unwillingness or cognitive impairment (n = 6) and death before follow-up (n = 44), a total of 47 patients (39 females) with a mean age of 81 years were available.At two year follow-up 38 of 47 patients lived in their own homes and the median New Mobility Score was 6 (range: 2-9). The median Visual Analogue Scale pain score was 0 (range: 0-5) at rest and 0 (range: 0-8) when walking. Patient satisfaction was a score of 9 (range: 2-10) on the VAS. Anterior or lateral thigh pain or groin pain was reported by 15 patients. The EQ-5D index score at follow-up was 0.72 (range: 0.16-1.00) and the EQ-5D Visual Analogue Score was 70 (range: 15-100). There were no signs of implant loosening in any of the 37 hips undergoing radiographic evaluation at follow-up.The results suggest that an uncemented hydroxyapatite coated hemiarthroplasty can be used to treat displaced intracupsular femoral neck fractures with good clinical and radiographic outcomes at short term follow-up.The BODE index (Body mass index, Obstruction, Dyspnea, Exercise), predicts the risk of death in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and is used to identify candidates for lung transplantation. We hypothesized that a higher BODE index would be associated with worse health-related quality of life (HRQL) in advanced COPD, and with larger improvements in HRQL after transplantation.In this cohort study (n = 112), we administered the St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), 36-Item Short Form (SF-36), Visual Analog Scale, Standard Gamble and EuroQol Group 5-Dimension (EQ-5D) index to otherwise healthy COPD patients with a FEV(1) <50% predicted. We compared mean HRQL values across BODE score groups, and tested for linear trends. In patients who received lung transplants during the study period, we compared SGRQ scores before and early (mean 4 months) after transplantation.BODE was directly associated with SGRQ and inversely related to all other HRQL measures (p < 0.05). Early post-transplant improvements in HRQL were also seen across the spectrum of BODE scores from 5 to 10.The BODE score is a significant predictor of HRQL in patients with severe COPD. We noted dramatic improvements in HRQL after transplantation, which appeared similar in magnitude for patients with pre-transplant BODE scores of 5 or 6 and 7 to 10, despite the difference in expected survival between these two groups. The association of the BODE score with HRQL further supports its use in identifying potential candidates for lung transplantation.The objective of this study was to determine the impact of pressure ulceration on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and to undertake a pilot study for a future larger study. The study comprised two parts. First, data from a large UK prospective cohort study were analyzed and the HRQoL of 218 people with pressure ulcers was compared with that of 2,289 people without ulcers using the Short Form-36 (SF-36) questionnaire. After adjusting for age, sex, and comorbidities, patients with pressure ulceration had significantly lower scores for both the physical (coefficient=-3.12, p<0.001) and mental (coefficient=-1.50, p=0.04) component summary scores of the SF-36. Second, a small pilot study was conducted to explore use of other tools. HRQoL was assessed in six patients with and 16 patients without pressure ulcers using the SF-36, the EQ-5D and a pain visual analog scale. SF-36 scores indicated that patients with pressure ulcers had significantly poorer physical functioning (d=22.3, p=0.001), role limitations due to physical problems (d=12.9, p=0.02), and vitality (d=20.6, p=0.04) than those without. EQ-5D scores were also poorer for patients with pressure ulceration, for both the visual analog scale (d=19.2, p=0.02) and the index (d=0.29, p=0.08). Patients with pressure ulceration had more perceived pain than those without; however, this difference was of borderline significance (d=-23.9, p=0.06). Pressure ulceration therefore has an impact on HRQoL that is measurable and persists after adjusting for potential confounding.Local infiltration analgesia (LIA)--using a combination of local anesthetics, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and epinephrine, injected periarticularly during surgery-has become popular in postoperative pain management after total knee arthroplasty (TKA). We compared intrathecal morphine with LIA after TKA.In this double-blind study, 50 patients scheduled to undergo TKA under spinal anesthesia were randomized into 2 groups: group M, 0.1 mg morphine was injected intrathecally together with the spinal anesthetic and in group L, LIA using ropivacaine, ketorolac, and epinephrine was infiltrated in the knee during the operation, and 2 bolus injections of the same mixture were given via an intraarticular catheter postoperatively. Postoperative pain, rescue analgesic requirements, mobilization, and home readiness were recorded. Patient-assessed health quality was recorded using the Oxford Knee Score and EQ-5D during 3 months follow-up. The primary endpoint was IV morphine consumption the first 48 postoperative hours.Mean morphine consumption was significantly lower in group L than in group M during the first 48 postoperative hours: 26 ± 15 vs 54 ± 29 mg, i.e., a mean difference for each 24-hour period of 14.2 (95% confidence interval [CI] 7.6 to 20.9) mg. Pain scores at rest and on movement were lower during the first 48 hours in group L than in group M (P < 0.001). Pain score was also lower when walking in group L than in group M at 24 hours and 48 hours postoperatively (P < 0.001). In group L, more patients were able to climb stairs at 24 hours: 50% (11 of 22) versus 4% (1 of 23), i.e., a difference of 46% (95% CI 23.5 to 68.5) and at 48 hours: 70% (16 of 23) versus 22% (5 of 23), i.e., a difference of 48% (95% CI 23 to 73). Median (range) time to fulfillment of discharge criteria was shorter in group L than in group M, 51 (24-166) hours versus 72 (51-170) hours. The difference was 23 (95% CI 18 to 42) hours (P = 0.001). Length of hospital stay was also shorter in group L than in group M: median (range) 3 (2-17) versus 4 (2-14) days (P = 0.029). Patient satisfaction was greater in group L than in group M (P = 0.001), but no differences were found in knee function, side effects, or in patient-related outcomes, Oxford Knee score, or EQ-5D.LIA technique provided better postoperative analgesia and earlier mobilization, resulting in shorter hospital stay, than did intrathecal morphine after TKA.There has recently been interest in the advantages of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) over conventional surgery, and on local infiltration analgesia (LIA) during knee arthroplasty. In this randomized controlled trial, we investigated whether MIS would result in earlier home-readiness and reduced postoperative pain compared to conventional unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) where both groups received LIA.40 patients scheduled for UKA were randomized to a MIS group or a conventional surgery (CON) group. Both groups received LIA with a mixture of ropivacaine, ketorolac, and epinephrine given intra- and postoperatively. The primary endpoint was home-readiness (time to fulfillment of discharge criteria). The patients were followed for 6 months.We found no statistically significant difference in home-readiness between the MIS group (median (range) 24 (21-71) hours) and the CON group (24 (21-46) hours). No statistically significant differences between the groups were found in the secondary endpoints pain intensity, morphine consumption, knee function, hospital stay, patient satisfaction, Oxford knee score, and EQ-5D. The side effects were also similar in the two groups, except for a higher incidence of nausea on the second postoperative day in the MIS group.Minimally invasive surgery did not improve outcome after unicompartmental knee arthroplasty compared to conventional surgery, when both groups received local infiltration analgesia. The surgical approach (MIS or conventional surgery) should be selected according to the surgeon's preferences and local hospital policies. ClinicalTrials.gov. (Identifier NCT00991445).The degree of postoperative pain is usually moderate to severe following knee arthroplasty. We investigated the efficacy of local administration of analgesics into the operating area, both intraoperatively and postoperatively.40 patients undergoing unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) were randomized into 2 groups in a double-blind study (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00653926). In group A (active), 200 mg ropivacaine, 30 mg ketorolac, and 0.5 mg epinephrine (total volume 106 mL) were infiltrated intraoperatively into the soft tissue, while in group P (placebo), no injections were given. 21 hours postoperatively, 150 mg ropivacain, 30 mg ketorolac, and 0.1 mg epinephrine were injected intraarticularly via a catheter in group A, whereas patients in group P were injected with the same volume of saline (22 mL).Median hospital stay was shorter in group A than in group P: 1 (1-6) days as opposed to 3 (1-6) days (p < 0.001). Postoperative pain in group A was statistically significantly lower at rest after 6 h and 27 h and on movement after 6, 12, 22, and 27 h. Morphine consumption was statistically significantly lower in group A for the first 48 h, resulting in a lower frequency of nausea, pruritus, and sedation. Postoperatively, there were improved functional scores (Oxford knee score and EQ-5D) in both groups relative to the corresponding preoperative values.Local injection of analgesics periarticularly at the end of the operation and intraarticularly at 21 h postoperatively provided excellent pain relief and earlier home discharge following UKA. There was a high degree of patient satisfaction in both groups after 6 months (Clinical Trials.gov: NCT 00653926).It is well accepted that conditions that cause central vision loss (CVL) have a negative impact on functional ability and quality of life (QoL), but the impact of diseases that cause peripheral vision loss (PVL) is less well understood. Focusing on glaucoma and age-related macular degeneration (ARMD), the effects of CVL and PVL on QoL were compared.A systematic literature review of publications reporting QoL in patients with CVL or PVL identified 87 publications using four generic (Short-Form Health Survey-36 and -12, EuroQoL EQ-5D and Sickness Impact Profile) and five vision-specific (National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-51, -39, and -25, Impact of Vision Impairment and Visual Function-14) QoL instruments; 33 and 15 publications reported QoL in ARMD and glaucoma, respectively.QoL was impaired to a similar extent by diseases associated with PVL and CVL, but different domains were affected. In contrast to ARMD, mental aspects appeared to be affected more than physical aspects in patients with glaucoma.The differential impact upon QoL might be a function of the pathology of the diseases, for example potential for blindness and better ability to perform physical tasks due to retention of central vision may explain these observations in glaucoma.'Silent' cerebral infarction and stroke are complications of transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI).To assess the occurrence of cerebral infarction, identify predictive risk factors and examine the impact on patient health-related quality of life (HRQoL).Cerebral diffusion weighted MRI of 31 patients with aortic stenosis undergoing CoreValve TAVI was carried out. HRQoL was assessed at baseline and at 30 days by SF-12v2 and EQ5D questionnaires.New cerebral infarcts occurred in 24/31 patients (77%) and stroke in 2 (6%). Stroke was associated with a greater number and volume of cerebral infarcts. Age (r=0.37, p=0.042), severity of atheroma (arch and descending aorta; r=0.91, p<0.001, r=0.69, p=0.001, respectively) and catheterisation time (r=0.45, p=0.02) were predictors of the number of new cerebral infarcts. HRQoL improved overall: SF-12v2 physical component summary increased significantly (32.4±6.2 vs 36.5±7.2; p=0.03) with no significant change in mental component summary (43.5±11.7 vs. 43.1±14.3; p=0.85). The EQ5D score and Visual Analogue Scale showed no significant change (0.56±0.26 vs. 0.59±0.31; p=0.70, and 54.2±19 vs. 58.2±24; p=0.43).Multiple small cerebral infarcts occurred in 77% of patients with TAVI. The majority of infarcts were 'silent' with clinical stroke being associated with a both higher infarct number and volume. Increased age and the severity of aortic arch atheroma were independent risk factors for the development of new cerebral infarcts. Overall HRQoL improved and there was no association between the number of new cerebral infarcts and altered health status.To evaluate effects of a structured home-based exercise program on functional capacity and quality of life (QoL) in patients with intermittent claudication (IC) after 1-year follow-up, and to compare these results with those from a concurrent control group who received supervised exercise training (SET).Comparative longitudinal cohort study.Referral center.Patients (N=142) with IC.Structured home-based exercise training or SET.The maximum (pain-free) walking distance and the ankle-brachial index (ABI) (at rest and postexercise) were measured at baseline and after 6 and 12 months' follow-up. Additionally, QoL was evaluated using a self-administered questionnaire consisting of the Euroqol-5D (scale 0-1), rating scale (scale 0-100), Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36; scale 0-100), and the Vascular Quality of Life Questionnaire (VascuQol; scale 1-7). Comparison of the groups was performed with adjustment for the nonrandomized setting using propensity scoring.One hundred forty-two patients with IC started the structured home-based exercise program, of whom 95 (67%) completed 12 months' follow-up. The mean relative improvement compared with baseline was statistically significant after 12 months' follow-up for the maximum and pain-free walking distance (342%, 95% confidence interval [CI], 169-516; P<.01 and 338%, 95% CI, 42-635; P=.03, respectively) and for the ABI postexercise (mean change, .06; 95% CI, .01-.10; P=.02). For the QoL outcomes, the improvement compared with baseline was statistically significant after 12 months for the VascuQol (mean change, .42; 95% CI, .20-.65; P<.01) and for the SF-36 physical functioning (mean change, 5.17; 95% CI, .77-9.56; P=.02). Compared with the structured home-based exercise program, patients in the control group showed significantly better results in the mean relative improvement of maximum and pain-free walking distance and change in the ABI at rest after 12 months' follow-up.Structured home-based exercise training is effective in improving both functional capacity and QoL in patients with IC and may be considered as a feasible and valuable alternative toSET, since supervised exercise programs are not often available.Patient-orientated outcome questionnaires are essential to evaluate treatment success. To compare different treatments, hospitals, and surgeons, standardised questionnaires are required. The present study examined the validity and responsiveness of the Core Outcome Measurement Index for neck pain (COMI-neck), a short, multidimensional outcome instrument.Questionnaires were completed by patients with degenerative problems of the cervical spine undergoing cervical disc arthroplasty before (N = 89) and 3 months after (N = 75) surgery. The questionnaires comprised the EuroQol-Five Dimension (EQ-5D), the North American Spine Society Cervical Spine Outcome Assessment Instrument (NASS-cervical) and the COMI-neck.The COMI and NASS-cervical scores displayed no notable floor or ceiling effects at any time point whereas for the EQ-5D, the highest values [corrected] were reached in around 32.5% of patients at follow-up. With one exception (symptom-specific well-being), the individual COMI items and the COMI summary score correlated to the expected extent (R = 0.4-0.8) with the scores of the chosen reference questionnaires. The area under the curve (AUC) generated by ROC analysis was significantly higher for the COMI (0.96) than for any other instrument/subscale when self reported treatment outcome was used as the external criterion, dichotomised as "good" (operation helped a lot/helped) versus "poor" (operation helped only a little/didn't help/made things worse). The COMI had a high effect size (standardised response mean; SRM) (2.34) for the good global outcome group and a low SRM for the poor outcome group (0.34). The EQ-5D and the NASS-cervical lacked this ability to differentiate between the two groups, showing less distinct SRMs for good and poor outcome groups.This study provides evidence that the COMI-neck is a valid and responsive questionnaire in the population of patients examined. Further investigations should examine its applicability in other patient groups with less severe neck pain or undergoing other treatment modalities.this study aimed to investigate the construct validity and responsiveness of performance-based and self-reported measures of strength, mobility and balance after hip fracture.secondary analysis of clinical trial data.a total of 148 older people undergoing hip fracture rehabilitation.correlation coefficients assessed construct validity. Internal responsiveness was assessed by calculating effect sizes (ES) I and II. Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) assessed external responsiveness with change in EuroQol as the reference.correlations between performance-based and self-reported measures were small to medium (strength r = 0.17, mobility r = 0.45 and balance r = 0.37). The most responsive performance-based measures included walking speed (ESI 1.7, ESII 1.2), Physical Performance and Mobility Examination (ESI 1.3, ESII 1.0) and chair-rise test (ESI 1.1, ESII 0.8). Self-reported mobility (ESI 0.8, ESII 0.6) and strength (ESI 0.8, ESII 0.6) were more responsive than self-reported balance (ESI 0.3, ESII 0.2). External responsiveness (AUC) was greatest for walking speed (0.72) and lowest for the measures of body sway (0.53).self-reported and performance-based indices appear to assess different constructs and may provide complementary information about physical functioning in people after hip fracture. Measures of strength and mobility showed greater ability to detect change than measures of balance.The EQ-5D is a quality of life instrument that measures five dimensions of health. This study investigated the reliability and validity of its use in the Malaysian dialysis population. Test-retest reliability, convergent and discriminant validity were assessed. Responses of 86 subjects who completed both surveys were used in analysis. Test-retest reliability using Cohen's kappa was acceptable in four out of five dimensions, with the exception of self-care. Convergent validity was present. Discriminant validity was found in only two out of six hypotheses tested. In conclusion, the EQ-5D has potential in this population but further study is required.No differences in patient health status as measured by the EuroQol-5 Dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaire were observed at 1 year between groups randomized to addition of biphasic, prandial or basal insulin to oral therapy in the treat-to-target in type 2 diabetes trial. We further investigated insulin treatment satisfaction between groups.Seven hundred and eight patients with suboptimal glycated haemoglobin levels (7.0-10.0%) taking maximally tolerated doses of metformin and sulphonylurea were randomized to biphasic insulin aspart twice-daily, prandial insulin aspart three times daily or basal insulin detemir once-daily (twice if required). At 1 year self-completed Insulin Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaires (ITSQ) were administered. Lower scores indicated lower treatment satisfaction. We tested for differences between the three groups for the ITSQ total score and for each of the five ITSQ domain scores adjusting for age, gender, ethnicity and education.All 22 ITSQ subscales were completed by 554 (78.2%) patients. Their mean (s.d.) age was 61.5 (9.4) years, body weight 86.1 (16) kg and median (IQR) diabetes duration 9 (6-13) years. Sixty-five percent (358) were male. Median (IQR) 1-year ITSQ total score was lower in patients allocated to prandial therapy (76.5, 68.0-88.6) than in patients allocated to biphasic insulin (83.3, 74.2-90.2) or basal insulin (84.1, 73.5-93.2). With the exception of 'perceived glycaemic control', 1-year adjusted ITSQ scores were significantly different between groups for each of the ITSQ domains, with lower scores for prandial insulin compared with the basal or biphasic groups. Median (IQR) ITSQ scores were lower in patients with a gain in body mass index (BMI) > 1.23 kg/m² over 1 year (79.5, 69.7-89.4) compared to those with a lesser or no gain in BMI (84.1, 74.2-92.4) and in those with occurrence of hypoglycaemia (79.5, 69.7-88.6) compared to those with no hypoglycaemia (84.1, 73.7-93.2).Specific measurement of insulin treatment satisfaction identifies differences between regimens used to intensify treatment for type 2 diabetes. Impact of treatment on lifestyle needs to be considered as a factor in the choice of an insulin regimen.To assess health-related quality of life in patients with Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) in China.A total of 684 participants from endemic areas of the Shaanxi province in China were recruited through a multistage stratified random sampling. Amongst those, 368 participants were diagnosed with KBD while the rest of 316 were non-KBD participants. Differences between KBD and non-KBD groups were analysed for the percentage of reporting any problems in each of EQ-5D five dimensions, EQ-5D index scores and visual analogue scale (VAS) scores.KBD patients have a higher percentage of reporting any problems in each of EQ-5D dimension than non-KBD participants and a general population in Beijing. The most affected dimension is pain/discomfort, followed by mobility, anxiety/depression, and usual activities, and self-care being the last. The mean EQ-5D index and VAS scores for KBD patients are significantly lower than those of non-KBD participants.This study is the first attempt to measure the health-related quality of life in KBD patients. The results of the study show that KBD has a severe impact on patients' health-related quality of life as measured by EQ-5D. It particularly causes great problems in the dimensions of pain/discomfort, mobility and anxiety/depression.Moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease (CD) is associated with important impairment in health-related quality of life (HRQOL). The aim of this study was to assess the effects of certolizumab pegol (CZP) maintenance therapy on HRQOL.During an open-label induction phase, study participants with moderate-to-severe CD were treated with 400 mg CZP every other week. Responders were randomized to monthly maintenance therapy with CZP or placebo. Clinically meaningful improvement in HRQOL was evaluated with three patient-reported outcome (PRO) instruments. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated from utility scores derived from the EuroQoL-5 dimensions (EQ-5D). Normal life rating was measured by combining clinical disease activity, HRQOL, and measures of professional work productivity and daily activity.A total of 425 responders to induction therapy were randomized to CZP maintenance (n=215) or placebo (n=210). Participants assigned to CZP maintenance reported clinically meaningful improvements in HRQOL relative to baseline and to placebo-treated participants. More participants receiving treatment with CZP reported clinically meaningful improvement in Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ) score (60 vs. 43%, P<0.001) and in Short-Form 36-Item Health Survey (SF-36) physical (51 vs. 34%, P<0.001) and mental component summary responses (44 vs. 32%, P=0.016) than did those receiving placebo. The proportion of participants who achieved clinically meaningful improvement in the EQ-5D plus health status visual analogue scale (VAS) was significantly greater in those assigned to CZP maintenance than in those assigned placebo (57 vs. 38%, P<0.001). There was also a significantly greater gain in QALYs for the CZP group as compared with the placebo group (mean+/-s.d. 0.25+/-0.10 and 0.21+/-0.11; P=0.001). Significantly more participants receiving CZP maintenance reported living a normal life (21.4%) than did those receiving placebo (12.9%, P=0.019).Maintenance therapy with CZP resulted in statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvements in HRQOL, as assessed by multiple PRO instruments. CZP improved and maintained the quality and quantity of the remission and response, as measured by QALYs. Furthermore, a significant proportion of study participants who received CZP returned to a normal life compared with those who received placebo.Preference-based measures of health-related quality of life all use the same dead = 0.00 to perfect health = 1.00 scale, but there are substantial differences among measures.The objective was to examine agreement in classifying patients as better, stable, or worse.The EQ-5D, Health Utilities Index Mark 2 and Mark 3, Quality of Well-Being-Self-Administered scale, Short-Form 36 (Short-Form 6D), and disease-targeted measures were administered prospectively in 2 clinical cohorts. The study was conducted at academic medical centers: University of California, Los Angeles; University of California, San Diego; University of Wisconsin-Madison; and University of Southern California. Patients undergoing cataract extraction surgery with lens replacement completed the 25-item National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI-VFQ-25). Patients newly referred to congestive heart failure specialty clinics completed the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHF). In both cohorts, subjects completed surveys at baseline and at 1 and 6 months. The NEI-VFQ-25 and MLHF were used as gold standards to assign patients to categories of change. Agreement was assessed using κ.There were 376 cataract patients recruited. Complete data for baseline and the 1-month follow-up were available on all measures for 210 cases. Using criteria specified by Altman, agreement was poor for 6 of 9 pairs of comparisons and fair for 3 pairs. There were 160 heart failure patients recruited. Complete data for baseline and the 6-month follow-up were available for 86 cases. Agreement was negligible for 5 pairs and fair for 1. The study was conducted on selected patients at a few academic medical centers.The results underscore the lack of interchangeability among different preference-based measures.Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) screening for recurrence of a coiled intracranial aneurysm and formation of new aneurysms long-term after coiling may induce anxiety and depression. In coiled patients, we evaluated effects on mood and level of anxiety from long-term follow-up MRA in comparison to general population norms.Of 162 patients participating in a long-term (>4.5 years) MRA follow-up after coiling, 120 completed the EQ-5D questionnaire, a visual analog health scale and a self-developed screening related questionnaire at the time of MRA. Three months later, the same questionnaires were completed by 100 of these 120 patients. Results were compared to general population norms adjusted for gender and age.Any problem with anxiety or depression was reported in 56 of 120 patients (47%; 95%CI38↔56%) at baseline and 42 of 100 patients (42%; 95%CI32↔52%) at 3 months, equally for screen-positives and -negatives. Compared to the reference population, participants scored 38% (95%CI9↔67%) and 27% (95%CI4↔50%) more often any problem with anxiety or depression. Three months after screening, 21% (20 of 92) of screen-negatives and 13% (one of eight) of screen-positives reported to be less afraid of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) compared to before screening. One of eight screen-positives reported increased fear of SAH.Patients with coiled intracranial aneurysms participating in long-term MRA screening reported significantly more often to be anxious or depressed than a reference group. Screening did not significantly increase anxiety or depression temporarily. However, subjectively, patients did report an increase in anxiety caused by screening, which decreased after 3 months.In this paper we present a study whose main aim is the measurement of the Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) of patients with asthma and the presentation of a first draft of normative values as measured by the SF-6D for asthma patients. In addition, we investigate how far non-disease-specific HRQoL measures can distinguish groups in terms of sociodemographic characteristics. The Portuguese versions of the EQ-5D, SF-6D, AQLQ(S) and ACQ were administered using personal interviews to a representative sample of the Portuguese population with asthma. Most of the individuals did not report significant problems in the dimensions used, with the exception of the physical functioning, where individuals reported moderate limitations. The mean utility value was 0.86. Male gender, young, single, individuals with high educational attainment level, employed, individuals with high income and those residing in urban areas reported higher utility levels. As expected, those who were in a severe stadium of the disease reported lower mean utility levels than those who were in a less severe stadium of the disease. Normative values for the SF-6D were computed for patients with asthma by gender, age, marital status, educational attainment level, employment status, area of residence and average monthly net income. The preference-based measures used in this study distinguish patient groups with asthma in terms of socio- demographic groups. The normative values can be used in economic evaluation and clinical studies as they incorporate patients' preferences and translate the value attributed to patients' health state.To analyze the effects of a home-based physical exercise program on quality of life, metabolic control, and anthropometric and biochemical parameters in people over 60 years of age with type 2 diabetes mellitus.Eighty-four Spanish patients aged over 60 years were finally randomized to participate in a home-based, combined physical exercise program (aerobic and anaerobic exercises) or to receive conventional treatment for diabetes. At 6 months, effects on quality of life (EuroQoL questionnaire). HbA1c, fasting glucose, hypoglycemic events, weight, BMI, waist circumference, blood pressure, and biochemical parameters were assessed.Mean age of study participants was 66.7 (8.0) years. Patients in the exercise group showed an improved quality of life at six months based on EuroQol: 0.48 (0.38) vs 0.66 (0.35) and analogic scale 67.97 (18.92) vs 76.26 (20.14). An improved glycemic control was also seen: HbA1c 6.35 vs 6.0% and fasting glucose 151.2 (36.7) vs 137.6 (23.5) mg/dL, as well as a weight reduction by 1.7 kg. Hypoglycemic events did not increase. No benefits were seen in the control group. Ten subjects withdrew from the study before 6 months.A home-based physical exercise program improves quality of life, glycemic control, and weight in type 2 diabetic patients older than 60 years.To examine gender differences according to health status in the oldest old people of the community.Cross-sectional multicentre study, within the framework of a clinical trial on falls and malnutrition.7 primary health centres.Non-institutionalised patients of 85 years or over.The data collected included, socioeconomic data, cardiovascular risk factors, Barthel Index (BI), cognitive status with the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Charlson Index to measure comorbidity, nutritional risk evaluated by Nutritional Assessment questionnaire (MNA), mean visual analogue self-rating scale in Euroqol- 5D (EQ-VAS) to assess health related quality life and, Gijón social risk test, and prescribed drugs.A total of 312 subjects were included, of which 61.6% were women, 53% widows and a third of them lived alone. High blood pressure was observed in 76%, dyslipidemia in 51.2%, diabetes in 17.4%, median BI 95 (rank 0-100), MMSE 28 (0-35), Charlson index 1 (0-7), MNA 25 (10-30), Gijón test 10 (5-21), EQ-VAS 60 (0-100) and the mean prescription drugs 6.1±3.3. Women most frequently lived alone (P<.001), fell more (P<.006), had a greater nutritional (P<.016) and social risk (P<.001). Men were more likely to be married (P<.001), had better cognition (P<.003), better functional status (P<.018), and higher comorbidity (P<.001).Being a 85 years old man is associated with being married, having better functionality and cognition, and a higher comorbidity. While being a woman is associated with living alone, a higher rate of falls, and nutritional and social risk. These results are important to help this group of elderly to maintain their position in the community.The group of age showing a faster growth is the most elderly people. The objective of this study is to describe the health related quality of life in elderly subjects older than 89 year and to identify related factors.A cross-sectional study was done at the third year of a longitudinal study (NonaSantfeliu). We evaluated all survived patients who scored >19 in the Spanish version of the Mental State Examination (MEC). Sociodemographic data were collected, functional status was determined by Lawton-Brody and Barthel Index (BI) and cognition with MEC. Charlson score was used to measure comorbidity and the nutritional risk was evaluated by the short version of Mini Nutritional Assessment questionnaire (short-MNA). Euroqol-5D (EQ-5D) was used to assess health related quality of life.The final sample was composed by 37 subjects, 25 women (68%) and 12 men, with a mean age of 94.32 (2.9) years. The mean score in EQ-5D was 0,51 (0,2) and the mean visual analogue self-rating scale (EQ-VAS) was 63 (2,9). Three variables: female gender (p=0,011; regression Beta coefficient : 18,99; IC 95%: 4,66-33,33 , poor BI score (p=0.010; regression Beta coefficient 0.38; IC 95%: 0.09-0.67) and high nutritional risk in short-MNA (p=0.001; regression Beta coefficient: 3.95; IC 95%: 2.50-5.41) were associated with quality of life in the multivariate analyses.A good health quality of life in the oldest old people was observed in this study. Gender, functional status and nutritional risk were associated with quality of life in nonagenarians.Different results after shoulder arthroplasty have been found for different diagnostic groups. We evaluated function, pain, and quality of life after shoulder arthroplasty in 4 diagnostic groups.Patients with shoulder arthroplasties registered in the Norwegian Arthroplasty Register from 1994 through 2008 were posted a questionnaire in 2010. 1,107 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), osteoarthritis (OA), acute fracture (AF), or fracture sequela (FS) returned completed forms (65% response rate). The primary outcome measure was the Oxford shoulder score (OSS), which assesses symptoms and function experienced by the patient on a scale from 0 to 48. A secondary outcome measure was the EQ-5D, which assesses life quality. The patients completed a questionnaire concerning symptoms 1 month before surgery, and another concerning the month before they received the questionnaire.Patients with RA and OA had the best results with a mean improvement in OSS of 16 units, as opposed to 11 for FS patients. Both shoulder pain and function had improved substantially. The change in OSS for patients with AF was negative (-11), but similar end results were obtained for AF patients as for RA and OA patients. Quality of life had improved in patients with RA, OA, and FS.Good results in terms of pain relief and improved level of function were obtained after shoulder arthroplasty for patients with RA, OA, and-to a lesser degree-FS. A shoulder arthropathy had a major effect on quality of life, and treatment with shoulder replacement substantially improved it.We report the three-year results of a new flexible, horseshoe-shaped acetabular cup, with a carbon fibre reinforced polyetheretherketone (CFR-PEEK) bearing surface. The 3 mm thick composite cup is designed to conserve acetabular bone stock and reproduce a near-physiological stress distribution to the adjacent bone. The cup is intended to articulate against a large diameter ceramic femoral head to produce a low-wear bearing couple that generates minimal wear debris. A prospective, two-centre clinical study of the MITCH PCR cup was started in January 2007, to verify its safety and performance. Twenty-five MITCH PCR cups were implanted by three surgeons. There were 12 men and 13 women, with a mean age of 67.9 years (range 57.4 to 74.9). The mean Oxford hip score improved from 19.6 (SD 7.5) preoperatively to 43.5 (SD 7) at 3 years. The mean Harris hip score improved from 52.9 (SD 7) to 91.4 (SD 13.8) and the Euroqol-5D score increased from 62.6 (SD 18.4) to 82.8 (SD 19). One revision of the acetabular cup was undertaken at 21 months for squeaking. This has been investigated and modification of the articular geometry has resolved the problem, on in-vitro testing. Radiological analysis showed good early osseointegration of the MITCH PCR cup. However at three years, five cases of acetabular component migration and calcar resorption were observed. Three patients have subsequently undergone revision of the acetabular cup, at 41, 42 and 50 months respectively. The cause of the osteolysis is the subject of on-going investigation.Regenerative techniques, such as autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI), have emerged as a potential therapeutic option for the treatment of chondral lesions, aiming to recreate a hyaline-like tissue in the damaged articular surface. The clinical application of the regenerative approach is well documented for different types of scaffold but mostly with an evaluation of the clinical outcome at short-term follow-up.This study was conducted to analyze the clinical outcome obtained with arthroscopic second-generation ACI up to 7 years' follow-up, to assess the durability of the results, and understand its real potential over time.Case series; Level of evidence, 4.Sixty-two consecutive patients, 48 men and 14 women with a mean age of 28.1 ± 11.4 years, affected by chondral lesions of the femoral condyles were enrolled and treated with arthroscopic implantation of the bioengineered tissue Hyalograft C. The average size of the defects was 2.5 ± 1.0 cm(2). Patients were evaluated with International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC), EuroQol visual analog scale (EQ-VAS), and Tegner scores every year for 7 years, and a magnetic resonance imaging evaluation was performed.A statistically significant improvement was observed in all scores from the basal evaluation to the 84 months' follow-up. The IKDC subjective score increased from 39.6 ± 15.0 to 73.6 ± 18.8 at 12 months; a further slight improvement was observed at 24 months' follow-up (76.5 ± 20.7), and then the results were stable and reached a final 7-year value of 77.3 ± 21.5. Seven cases (11%) failed. A better outcome was obtained in young active men, whereas the worst results were found in degenerative lesions or when previous surgery had been performed. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging studies in 42 cases revealed a complete filling of the cartilage defect in 57% of the lesions, complete integration of the graft in 62% of cases, intact repair tissue surface in 50%, homogeneous repair tissue structure in 43%, and a graft signal-intensity score that was isointense with the adjacent native cartilage in 43% and 48% of the cases in dual T2-fast spin echo and 3-dimensional gradient echo with fat suppression sequences, respectively.The analysis of this group of homogeneous patients, prospectively evaluated every year for 7 years, shows that this bioengineered approach with the proper indications may offer good and stable clinical results over time.Young patients with osteoarthritic knees are a challenging population because of a combination of high functional demands and limited indication for joint replacement.To analyze the potential of the cartilage regenerative approach by documenting the results and failures of matrix-assisted autologous chondrocyte transplantation (MACT) at midterm follow-up.Case series; Level of evidence, 4.Forty-four patients affected by cartilage lesions in osteoarthritic knees underwent MACT as a salvage procedure. The mean age at surgery was 42 years (range, 20-58 years), and the average defect size was 4 cm(2) (range, 1.5-9 cm(2)). Patients were prospectively evaluated with the subjective International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC), EuroQol visual analog scale (EQ-VAS), and Tegner scores preoperatively; at 1, 2, and 5 years; and at a final assessment at 9 years' mean follow-up. Adverse events and failures were also reported.A statistically significant improvement was observed in all scores from the initial evaluation to the final follow-up. The mean ± standard deviation IKDC subjective score improved from 38.0 ± 15.8 to 67.0 ± 18.3 at 2 years (P < .0005), with a subsequent decrease to 57.8 ± 20.6 at the final follow-up (P = .012). The same trend was confirmed by the EQ-VAS score. The activity level revealed by the Tegner score improved at all follow-ups but without achieving the preinjury level. The analysis of the influencing factors showed the importance of the meniscus condition, revealing a significantly inferior outcome in knees with previous or combined partial meniscectomy procedures. During the study period, 12 patients had failed results, producing a cumulative failure rate of 27.3%. At the last evaluation, half of the patients considered their condition not better than before the treatment, and 39% would not repeat the treatment considering the results obtained.Despite a statistically significant improvement, the clinical outcome was poor. A higher improvement could be obtained in patients who had not undergone previous or combined meniscectomies, but this was limited over time. The failure rate was also high, regardless of the degree of osteoarthritis. Tissue-engineered cartilage implantation is questionable for this indication, and the limits of this scaffold-based procedure have to be considered if it is used as a salvage procedure for young patients affected by knee osteoarthritis.Chest pain due to suspected myocardial infarction (MI) is responsible for many hospital admissions and consumes substantial health care resources. The Randomized Assessment of Treatment using Panel Assay of Cardiac markers (RATPAC) trial showed that diagnostic assessment using a point-of-care (POC) cardiac biomarker panel consisting of CK-MB, myoglobin, and troponin increased the proportion of patients successfully discharged after emergency department (ED) assessment. In this economic analysis, the authors aimed to determine whether POC biomarker panel assessment reduced health care costs and was likely to be cost-effective.The RATPAC trial was a multicenter individual patient randomized controlled trial comparing diagnostic assessment using a POC biomarker panel (CK-MB, myoglobin, and troponin, measured at baseline and 90 minutes) to standard care without the POC panel in patients attending six EDs with acute chest pain due to suspected MI (n = 2,243). Individual patient resource use data were collected from all participants up to 3 months after hospital attendance using self-completed questionnaires at 1 and 3 months and case note review. ED staff and POC testing costs were estimated through a microcosting study of 246 participants. Resource use was valued using national unit costs. Health utility was measured using the EQ-5D self-completed questionnaire, mailed at 1 and 3 months. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated by the trapezium rule using the EQ-5D tariff values at all follow-up points. Mean costs per patient were compared between the two treatment groups. Cost-effectiveness was estimated in terms of probability of dominance and incremental cost per QALY.Point-of-care panel assessment was associated with higher ED costs, coronary care costs, and cardiac intervention costs, but lower general inpatient costs. Mean costs per patient were £1217.14 (standard deviation [SD] ± 3164.93), or $1,987.14 (SD ±$4,939.25), with POC versus £1005.91 (SD ±£1907.55), or $1,568.64 (SD ±$2,975.78), with standard care (p = 0.056). Mean QALYs were 0.158 (SD ± 0.052) versus 0.161 (SD ± 0.056; p = 0.250). The probability of standard care being dominant (i.e., cheaper and more effective) was 0.888, while the probability of the POC panel being dominant was 0.004. These probabilities were not markedly altered by sensitivity analysis varying the costs of the POC panel and excluding intensive care costs.Point-of-care panel assessment does not reduce costs despite reducing admissions and may even increase costs. It is unlikely to be considered a cost-effective use of health care resources.Approximately 210 million people are estimated to have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [COPD] worldwide. The burden of disease is known to be high, though less is known about those of a younger age. The aim of this study was to investigate the wider personal, economic and societal burden of COPD on a cross country working-age cohort.A cross-country [Brazil, China, Germany, Turkey, US, UK] cross-sectional survey methodology was utilised to answer the research questions. 2426 participants aged 45-67 recruited via a number of recruitment methods specific to each country completed the full survey. Inclusion criteria were a recalled physician diagnosis of COPD, a smoking history of > 10 pack years and the use of COPD medications in the previous 3 months prior to questioning. The survey included items from the validated Work Productivity and Activity Impairment [WPAI] scale and the EuroQoL 5 Dimension [EQ-5D] scale. Disease severity was measured using the 5-point MRC [Medical Research Council] dyspnoea scale as a surrogate measure.64% had either moderate [n = 1012] or severe [n = 521] COPD, although this varied by country. 75% of the cohort reported at least one comorbid condition. Quality of life declined with severity of illness [mild, mean EQ-5D score = 0.84; moderate 0.58; severe 0.41]. The annual cost of healthcare utilisation [excluding treatment costs and diagnostic tests] per individual was estimated to be $2,364 [£1,500]. For those remaining in active employment [n: 677]: lost time from work cost the individual an average of $880 [£556] per annum and lifetime losses of $7,365 [£4,661] amounting to $596,000 [£377,000] for the cohort. 447 [~40%] of the working population had retired prematurely because of COPD incurring individual estimated lifetime income losses of $316,000 [£200,000] or a combined total of $141 m [£89.6 m]. As the mean age of retirees was 58.3 and average time since retirement was 4 years, this suggests the average age of retirement is around 54. This would mean a high societal and economic impact in all study countries, particularly where typical state retirement ages are higher, for example in Brazil, Germany and the UK [65] and the US [65,66,67], compared to Turkey [58 for women, 60 for men] and China [60].Although generalisation across a broader COPD population is limited due to the varied participant recruitment methods, these data nevertheless suggest that COPD has significant personal, economic and societal burden on working age people. Further efforts to improve COPD diagnosis and management are required.6-month naturalistic, open-label trial to compare amisulpride versus topiramate and naltrexone as a treatment for patients with alcohol dependence, with assessments at enrolment and after 3 and 6 months of treatment.274 alcohol-dependent patients who had been drinking heavily during the past month were included. Once detoxified, patients were assigned to one of three treatment groups (naltrexone 50 mgr per day, topiramate 200 mgr per day or amisulpride 100 mgr per day). Patients were assessed at baseline and after 3 and 6 months of follow-up. Outcome was measured using tools that assessed alcohol intake (EuropASI and Alcohol Timeline Followback), craving (OCDS), disability (WHO/DAS), and quality of life (EQ-5D); changes in biomarkers of alcohol intake were also noted.at the 6-month follow-up patients taking amisulpride had poorer results than those taking topiramate in direct measures of alcohol intake (OCDS, alcohol intake, number of drinks per day and heavy drinking days), but no significant differences were found in these measures on comparing the amisulpride patients with those taking naltrexone.in this study, amisulpride, at a dose of 100 mgr per day, was less effective than topiramate, at a dose of 200 mg per day, but as effective as naltrexone, at a dose of 50 mg per day, for reducing alcohol intake and craving over the period of the study.Patient-reported outcomes are increasingly used to assess the efficacy of new treatments. Understanding relationships between these and clinical measures can facilitate their interpretation. We examined associations between patient-reported measures of health-related quality of life and clinical indicators of disease severity in a large, heterogeneous sample of patients with heart failure.Patient-reported measures, including the Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) and the EuroQol Visual Analog Scale (VAS), and clinical measures, including peak VO(2), 6-minute walk distance, and New York Heart Association (NYHA) class, were assessed at baseline in 2331 patients with heart failure. We used general linear models to regress patient-reported measures on each clinical measure. Final models included for significant sociodemographic variables and 2-way interactions.The KCCQ was correlated with peak VO(2) (r = .21) and 6-minute walk distance (r = .27). The VAS was correlated with peak VO(2) (r = .09) and 6-minute walk distance (r = .11). Using the KCCQ as the response variable, a 1-SD difference in peak Vo(2) (4.7 mL/kg/min) was associated with a 2.86-point difference in the VAS (95% CI, 1.98-3.74) and a 4.75-point difference in the KCCQ (95% CI, 3.78-5.72). A 1-SD difference in 6-minute walk distance (105 m) was associated with a 2.78-point difference in the VAS (95% CI, 1.92-3.64) and a 5.92-point difference in the KCCQ (95% CI, 4.98-6.87); NYHA class III was associated with an 8.26-point lower VAS (95% CI, 6.59-9.93) and a 12.73-point lower KCCQ (95% CI, 10.92-14.53) than NYHA class II.These data may inform deliberations about how to best measure benefits of heart failure interventions, and they generally support the practice of considering a 5-point difference on the KCCQ and a 3-point difference on the VAS to be clinically meaningful.To determine the cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF), level of cardiovascular risk (CVR) and to analyse the relationship between CVR and quality of life in patients with severe mental illness (SMI).Cross sectional study.Mental Health Service, Consorci Hospitalari de Vic (Barcelona).Patients over 18 years diagnosed with SMI.Data was collected on, socio-demographic variables, toxic habits, previous pathologies, family history of premature cardiovascular disease, psychiatric diagnoses, physical parameters and laboratory findings. The CVR was determined by the SCORE and REGICOR scales. Quality of life was measured by Euro-QoL and Seville Questionnaires.A total of 137 patients with SMI were included; 64.9% female, and a mean age 51.1 years (SD 12.9). Major CVRF distribution: 40.1% smoking, 37.9% hypertension, 56.2% dyslipidemia, and 11.1% diabetes. The criteria for obesity and metabolic syndrome were met by 37.9% and 48.4% of the patients, respectively. The average major CVRF was 1.5 factors. The CVR was high in 4.6% of the sample by SCORE and in 5.4% by REGICOR. Neither the patients who accumulated more CVRF or those with high CVR scores showed a worse quality of life.The most prevalent CVRF in patients with SMI are smoking and dyslipidemia, with a prevalence that exceeded population-based studies. The subgroup of depressive disorders showed a higher CVR and worse quality of life. No relationships were found between the CVR and the quality of life.Currently there is limited information on the indications for the use of cortical allograft for the treatment of periprosthetic fractures on a stable stem. The purpose of this study was to retrospectively evaluate the treatment and the results obtained in this type of fractures and propose a series of criteria for the use of cortical allograft. Between 2003 and 2008 a total of 31 periprosthetic femur fractures were treated at our institution. Twelve of them were classified as B1: 6 were treated with a Dall-Miles (Stryker) system plate and 6 with the same plate supplemented with a structural cortical allograft over the medial cortex of the femur (DM and DM-Allo groups, respectively). An evaluation of the clinical and radiologic results was performed in the latest follow-up available. A patient in the DM-Allo group had rupture of a screw and 10 degrees varization; the fracture healed despite this and the patient had a satisfactory clinical course. The Oxford Hip Score was 9 points lower in the DM group compared with the DM-Allo group, and the EQ-5D health scale was 0.10 better for the DM group. The DM-Allo group had a longer hospital stay and more transfusion-related requirements. We think that the patients with clinical or radiologic criteria of osteoporotic bone may benefit from the use of a cortical allograft to favor healing and increase the bone stock. However, those advantages should be weighed considering the higher risk of surgical-related morbidity associated with the surgical insult.A 68-year-old woman presented following a road accident with an undisplaced intertrochanteric fracture affecting an ankylosed hip and an ipsilateral calcaneal fracture. The interthrocanteric fracture was fixed with four 7.0 mm cannulated screws. The calcaneal fracture was fixed with K wires and immobilized in a plaster. Because of this combination of injuries, although she was allowed to mobilize non weight bearing from the first week, sitting and progressive weight bearing were not permitted for six weeks. Radiographs taken at the one year showed consolidation of the hip fracture without complications. Final functional indices showed an EQ-5D VAS score of 40, EQ-5D health state index adapted to Spanish value sets of 0.493 and an Oxford Hip Score of 31. Screw fixation of an undisplaced intertrochanteric fracture in an ankylosed hip may be sufficient in some instances provided the patient remains non weight bearing for long enough.The Bypass versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischaemia of the Leg (BASIL) trial showed that survival in patients with severe lower limb ischemia (rest pain, tissue loss) who survived postintervention for >2 years after initial randomization to bypass surgery (BSX) vs balloon angioplasty (BAP) was associated with an improvement in subsequent amputation-free and overall survival of about 6 and 7 months, respectively. We now compare the effect on hospital costs and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of the BSX-first and BAP-first revascularization strategies using a within-trial cost-effectiveness analysis.We measured HRQOL using the Vascular Quality of Life Questionnaire (VascuQol), the Short Form 36 (SF-36), and the EuroQol (EQ-5D) health outcome measure up to 3 years from randomization. Hospital use was measured and valued using United Kingdom National Health Service hospital costs over 3 years. Analysis was by intention-to-treat. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated for cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Uncertainty was assessed using nonparametric bootstrapping of incremental costs and incremental effects.No significant differences in HRQOL emerged when the two treatment strategies were compared. During the first year from randomization, the mean cost of inpatient hospital treatment in patients allocated to BSX ($34,378) was estimated to be about $8469 (95% confidence interval, $2,417-$14,522) greater than that of patients allocated to BAP ($25,909). Owing to increased costs subsequently incurred by the BAP patients, this difference decreased at the end of follow-up to $5521 ($45,322 for BSX vs $39,801 for BAP) and was no longer significant. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a BSX-first strategy was $184,492 per QALY gained. The probability that BSX was more cost-effective than BAP was relatively low given the similar distributions in HRQOL, survival, and hospital costs.Adopting a BSX-first strategy for patients with severe limb ischemia does result in a modest increase in hospital costs, with a small positive but insignificant gain in disease-specific and generic HRQOL. However, the real-world choice between BSX-first and BAP-first revascularization strategies for severe limb ischemia due to infrainguinal disease cannot depend on costs alone and will require a more comprehensive consideration of individual patient preferences conditioned by expectations of survival and other health outcomes.Clinical trials have demonstrated the safety and efficacy of hyaluronic acid-based products for the treatment of synovial joints affected by osteoarthritis (OA), but data from observational studies of normal medical practice are sparse.This study investigated the safety and efficacy of intra-articular (IA) sodium hyaluronate (MW 1500-2000 KDa; Hyalubrix®) in the treatment of synovial joint OA.This is prospective, and observational study.This study was carried out at 47 specialist centers for physiatrists, orthopedics and rheumatology in Italy; the enrolled population, 1266 outpatient, was predominantly female (66%, 840/1266), with a mean age of 66 years, and a mean weight of 74 kg.The Participants with OA received IA injections of the study treatment (2 mL) once per week for 3 weeks. The knee was the joint most commonly affected by OA (right knee 802/1266 [63%]; left knee 598/1266 [47%]), and the longest median duration of disease occurred in the carpal joint (right carpal joint 40 months; left carpal joint 60 months).The primary endpoints were tolerability and details of usage of the IA sodium hyaluronate syringe device. Efficacy parameters included assessment of self-reported pain via the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), and evaluation of motor function via the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ). Quality of life (QoL) was assessed using the Euro QoL questionnaire (Clinical Trial Registration Number: ISRCTN 42690497).Data from 1266 participants were collected. The adverse event (AE) rate was 0.8% (95% CI, 0.4 to 1.5). Thirteen AEs were reported, 12 of which were mild or moderate in severity. Only one participant discontinued study treatment following an AE. No serious adverse events occurred. Coadministration of local anesthetic was required by up to 10% of patients. Statistically significant improvements in VAS, HAQ and EuroQoL were recorded in multiple joints (P<0.0001 for each).The study treatment was safe and well tolerated.. The study treatment reduced pain, improved mobility, and increased QoL in participants with OA.This study's aim was to describe and evaluate outcomes of medical strategies used for lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) treatment in general practice and to assess impact of LUTS on patients' general health-related quality of life (HRQoL).This cross-sectional observational study was conducted by French general practitioners. Eligible patients were males aged ≥50 years, diagnosed for at least one year and currently treated for LUTS due to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Several validated questionnaires were documented by patients to assess severity of LUTS (IPSS), specific quality of life (IPSS-Q8), impact of LUTS (BII), LUTS evolution (VNS) and general HRQoL (EQ-5D).Among 1,098 patients included, 82.7% were treated with monotherapies and 17.3% with combinations. Mean treatment duration was 5.2 ± 3.2 years, and 47.2% of patients had at least one treatment modification since initiation. Patients reported diminished quality of life (IPSS-Q8 ≥3) (42.3%), persisting symptoms (IPSS-score ≥12) (35.5%), symptoms worsening (VNS-score ≤-1) (18.8%) and high bother (BII-score ≥9) (2.6%). Globally, 52.8% had at least one of these unsatisfactory outcomes. Regarding general HRQoL, mean EQ-5D utility significantly decreased with LUTS severity (mild: 0.90 ± 0.12; moderate: 0.81 ± 0.21; and severe symptoms: 0.73 ± 0.25; P < 0.001). As well, all five-dimensions of EQ-5D were significantly altered in patients with moderate-to-severe LUTS (<0.001), especially 'Pain/Discomfort' and 'Anxiety/Depression'. In multivariate analyses including age and comorbidities, EQ-5D utility index remained negatively associated with each additional unit in the IPSS-score.This study shows that around half of BPH patients medically treated report unsatisfactory outcomes, suggesting consequential unmet medical needs in general practice. Also, moderate-to-severe LUTS significantly impact on general HRQoL.Traffic injuries can cause physical, psychological, and economical impairment, and affected individuals may also experience shortcomings in their post-accident care and treatment. In an earlier randomised controlled study of nursing intervention via telephone follow-up, self-ratings of health-related quality of life were generally higher in the intervention group than in the control group.To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of nursing intervention via telephone follow-up by examining costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).A randomised controlled study was conducted between April 2003 and April 2005. Car occupants, cyclists, and pedestrians aged between 18 and 70 years and attending the Emergency Department of Umeå University Hospital in Sweden after an injury event in the traffic environment were randomly assigned to an intervention (n = 288) or control group (n = 280). The intervention group received routine care supplemented by nursing via telephone follow-up during half a year, while the control group received routine care only. Data were collected from a mail survey using the non-disease-specific health-related quality of life instrument EQ5D, and a cost-effectiveness analysis was performed including the costs of the intervention and the QALYs gained.Overall, the intervention group gained 2.60 QALYs (260 individuals with an average gain of 0.01 QALYs). The car occupants gained 1.54 QALYs (76 individuals, average of 0.02). Thus, the cost per QALY gained was 16 000 Swedish Crown (SEK) overall and 8 500 SEK for car occupants.Nursing intervention by telephone follow-up after an injury event, is a cost effective method giving improved QALY to a very low cost, especially for those with minor injuries.This trial registration number is: ISRCTN11746866.The aim of the study is to use the EQ-5D instrument to evaluate the long-term health states of women with early stage breast cancer treated by breast-conserving surgery and radiation. A total of 1,050 women treated with conservative surgery and radiation with or without systemic therapy completed 2,480 questionnaires during follow-up visits. The EQ-5D is a standardized and validated instrument for measuring quality of life outcomes. The descriptive system uses 5 dimensions of health with three possible levels of response that combine into 243 (3(5)) possible unique health states that are each assigned a values-based index score from 0 to 1. The visual analog scale (VAS) rates health on a simple vertical line from 0 to 100. Higher scores correspond to better health status. The mean index scores were 0.89 (95% CI: 0.87-0.91) at 5 years, 0.9 (95% CI: 0.86-0.94) at 10 years, and 0.9 (95% CI: 0.83-1.0) at 15 years. There were no significant differences in health states between patients by age when compared with U.S. controls. There was a statistically significant positive correlation between the results of the VAS and descriptive system. Significant trends in health dimensions over 15 years were increased problems with self-care and decreased problems with anxiety/depression, pain/discomfort, and performing usual activities. This study of EQ-5D is unique and demonstrates very high quality of life in patients long-term after breast-conserving surgery and radiation. These health states are comparable to the adult female U.S. population. These data will provide valuable patient utility information for informing decision analyses investigating new treatments in women with breast cancer.FUNDAMENTAL AND OBJECTIVE: Psychological impairment is frequent in patients with rheumatic diseases. The aim of the study was to assess the prevalence of symptoms of anxiety and depression in patients with psoriatic arthritis attending rheumatology clinics.Multicentre cross-sectional study conducted in rheumatology clinics. Patients with psoriatic arthritis were recruited; variables retrieved were sociodemographic, clinical and patient centered (Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale o HADs, EQ-5D questionnaire, etc.). Prevalence in the study population was calculated as anxiety or depression symptoms by an HADs score ≥11 or those receiving pharmacological treatment. A logistics regression model was used to know which variables were related to symptoms of anxiety or depression.A total of 495 patients were included, 42.8% were women and median (SD) age was 50.4 (12.7) years. Prevalence of symptoms of anxiety were 29.7% and prevalence of symptoms of depression was 17,6%. Patients with anxiety or depression symptoms had all EQ-5D dimensions affected (p<0.01). Higher prevalence of anxiety was related to being a woman, a mixed onset pattern with respect to peripheral joints and those treated with DMARD alone with respect to DMARD+NSAID or biologic alone. A higher depression prevalence was related to being a woman and a mixed onset pattern with respect to peripheral joints.The prevalence of anxiety symptoms and the prevalence of depression symptoms are high among patients suffering psoriatic arthritis in the studied population.Validation study.A system for patient self-recording on a computer touch-screen was developed. The validity of this method compared with the use of regular paper-and-pen questionnaires was studied.Systematic evaluation of health problems often involves the use of self-reporting questionnaires in order to collect data on different variables. Recording of such data for subsequent analysis requires several steps including filling out of paper forms and secretarial work. Missing values and misrecordings are frequent problems.Seventy-nine patients with back problems visiting our outpatient clinic for surgical evaluation were invited to take part in the study by answering a mailed questionnaire concerning background data, pain, function, quality of life, and depressive symptoms approximately 3 weeks before their visit. At the day of the visit they were asked to again answer the same questions with a replicate response option format displayed on a computer touch-screen.The agreement concerning background history questions, measured by kappa values was generally good (0.71-1.0). For visual analogue scale recordings (0-100) of back and leg pain, the mean of the differences were 1.1 and 2.1, respectively, and the correlations (Pearson) 0.72 and 0.87. The Euro-Qol 5 Dimension Score, the General Function Score, the Zung Depression Scale and the physical dimensions of the Short Form-36 showed a high degree of agreement between paper and screen recordings with difference means close to 0 and reliabilities comparing well to published methodologic errors for paper form versions. There were, however, differences concerning the mental components of the SF-36 with somewhat higher ratings on screen recordings. Missing values were 0% for screen recordings and for paper forms, 2.3% on individual questions and 12% on composite scores.Computerized touch-screen questionnaires virtually eliminates missing values and show good validity and reliability compared to paper forms. The SF-36 tended to produce slightly higher values on touch-screen recordings in questions concerning mental health.To examine and quantify, at the US national level, the marginal differences in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of diabetic patients with and without macrovascular comorbid conditions (MaVCC).Using the pooled Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) 2001 and 2003 data, a nationally representative community-dwelling adult sample (age ≥ 18) was included in the study. HRQoL measures included the preference-based EQ-5D index, Euroqol visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS), SF-12 physical component summary (PCS), and SF-12 mental component summary (MCS). Given the censored distribution of the data, a two-part model was used to identify the relationship between MaVCC and the EQ-5D index after controlling for age, sex, race, ethnicity, education, income, employment status, health insurance, smoking status, diabetes severity, and comorbidities. Censored least absolute deviation and ordinary least square models were employed to analyze EQ-VAS and SF-12 PCS/MCS, respectively.Compared to diabetic patients without MaVCC (N = 2431), those with MaVCC (N = 747) had significantly lower EQ-5D index (-0.062), EQ-VAS (-9.2), SF-12 PCS (-5.0), and MCS (-2.1) after controlling for differences in sociodemographics, smoking status, diabetes severity, and comorbidities (all P < 0.001).MaVCC is consistently associated with lower HRQoL for patients with diabetes in the United States. Results of this study are valuable for future comparative-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness analyses in diabetes.To estimate and compare EuroQol instrument (EQ-5D) health states' values for pneumococcal and human papillomavirus (HPV) diseases in Argentina, Chile, and the United Kingdom.Twelve vignettes were designed, pilot-tested, and administered to a convenience sample in a cross-sectional design to elicit descriptive EQ-5D state data. Country-specific EQ-5D time-trade-off-based weights were used to map these descriptive health states into local country preference weights. Descriptive analysis is reported and intercountry differences for each condition were compared using repeated measures analysis of variance.Seventy-three subjects completed the survey. Pneumococcal disease-related health states mean values ranged from -0.331 (sepsis, Chile) to 0.727 (auditive sequelae, Argentina). HPV-related conditions ranged from 0.152 (cervical cancer, United Kingdom) to 0.848 (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 1, Argentina). Chile had consistently the lowest mean values in pneumococcal states and in one HPV state, whereas those of the United Kingdom were the lowest in most HPV states. Argentina had the highest mean values in both diseases. Differences in country-specific values for each health state were statistically (P < 0.001) significant except for six health states in which differences between Chilean and United Kingdom weights were nonsignificant.Utility values for most conditions differed statistically relevantly among analyzed countries, even though the same health states' descriptive set was valued for each. These results reflect the difference in social weights among different countries, which could be attributed to either different population values or valuation study methodologies. They stress the importance of using local preference weights for context-specific decision making.To evaluate the effects of an ambulatory physical exercise program on the quality of life, anthropometric and biochemical parameters in obese post-menopausal women.One hundred and six obese post-menopausal women were randomized to take part in an ambulatory program of physical exercise (aerobic and anaerobic), or to receive conventional information about diet and exercise. After three months, effects on quality of life were evaluated (test Euroqol, Rosenberg and subjective evaluation of health), weight, BMI, waist perimeter and fat mass, and biochemical parameters.Mean age was 59.79 (8.02) years and BMI 37.51 (6.03) kg/m(2). Women included in the exercise group improved their quality of life after three months (EuroQol 0.48 (0.38) vs 0.66 (0.35); Rosenberg: 19.21 (5.05) vs 16.86 (4.94); subjective evaluation of health (%): 60.68 (19.99) vs 71.14 (17.28); p<0.01) and lost weight (90.95 (15.51) vs 88.72 (15.17); p<0.001), BMI (37.5 (5.68) vs 36.59 (5.72); p<0.001) and fat mass (46.28 (4.92)% vs 45.47 (4.88)%; p<0.01). No changes were observed in control group. 31 people withdrew the study before 12 weeks.An ambulatory physical exercise program improves quality of life and reduces weight and fat mass, in a short period of time, in obese post-menopausal women. The high rate of withdrawal should be considered as an inconvenient in this type of programs.To compare HRQoL differences with CHD in generic indexes and a proxy CVD-specific score in a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults.The National Health Measurement Study, a cross-sectional random-digit-dialed telephone survey of adults aged 35-89, administered the EQ-5D, QWB-SA, HUI2, HUI3, SF-36v2 (yielding PCS, MCS, and SF-6D), and HALex. Analyses compared 3,350 without CHD (group 1), 265 with CHD not taking chest pain medication (group 2), and 218 with CHD currently taking chest pain medication (group 3), with and without adjustment for demographic variables and comorbidities. Data on 154 patients from heart failure clinics were used to construct a proxy score utilizing generic items probing CVD symptoms.Mean scores differed between CHD groups for all indexes with and without adjustment (P < 0.0001 for all except MCS P = 0.018). Unadjusted group 3 versus 1 differences were about three times larger than for group 2 versus 1. Standardized differences for the proxy score were similar to those for generic indexes, and were about 1.0 for all except MCS for group 3 versus 1.Generic indexes capture differences in HRQoL in population-based studies of CHD similarly to a score constructed from questions probing CVD-specific symptoms.The revolution of early aggressive therapy in early arthritis (EA) has fueled the search for better approaches to establish cost-effectiveness. Our objective was to compare the EuroQol EQ-5D health outcome measure and the SF-6D and to investigate their relationship to clinical variables in a large prospective cohort of patients with EA.The EQ-5D and SF-6D utility measures were longitudinally assessed in 813 patients with EA. Agreement and aspects of validity (construct validity, discrimination) were assessed.At baseline, mean values for EQ-5D were 0.52 ± 0.31 (range -0.59 to 1.0) and for SF-6D were 0.58 ± 0.11 (range 0.30 to 0.92), with a bimodal distribution for the EQ-5D. Agreement was low for patients with severe disability or active disease: the utility was systematically lower with EQ-5D. The intraclass correlation coefficient was 0.42 at baseline and increased to 0.53 at 6 months and 0.57 at 1 and 2 years. Correlations between the 2 utility scores and the Health Assessment Questionnaire were good, and remained similar and stable over 2 years (r = -0.70). Correlations with the Disease Activity Score for 28 joints and the physical component of the MOS 36-item Short-form Health Survey (SF-36) were moderate to good and stable. In contrast, correlation with the mental component of the SF-36 was better with the SF-6D, and the correlation with pain, weak at baseline, improved at 6 months and remained stable thereafter. The SF-6D was better able to discriminate patients with high disease activity.There was systematic disagreement between EQ-5D and SF-6D in EA, especially in patients with worse clinical outcomes. Using the 2 instruments could be appropriate to conduct sensitivity analyses of cost-utility ratios because the instruments measure utility with closely similar measured properties, but at different levels.The EQ-5D is a five-dimension multi-attribute questionnaire widely used to calculate quality-adjusted life-year scores. We aimed to describe patients with early arthritis (EA) and EQ-5D < 0, a state worse than death, at baseline and over 2 years and determine aspects of EA associated with a negative score.EQ-5D scores for 813 patients were longitudinally assessed over 24 months. Characteristics and health status of patients with EQ-5D < 0 were analysed. Multivariate logistic regression was used to determine aspects of EA associated with a negative score.At baseline, 90 (11%) patients had a negative EQ-5D score (median EQ-5D -0.052; range -0.530 to -0.011). Almost all patients had extreme pain/discomfort and at least moderate problems in anxiety/depression domain. These patients had lower educational level, greater disease activity, higher HAQ score (greater functional disability), greater pain and fatigue, lower Short Form 36 (SF-36) mental component scores and higher CRP levels than patients with EQ-5D ≥ 0 (all P < 0.001). In the logistic regression model, worse HAQ and SF-36 mental component scores were associated with EQ-5D < 0. Results were similar at 6, 12 and 24 months, with 25, 23 and 24 patients, respectively, in a state worse than death.Pain or discomfort, often severe, is a key domain of the EQ-5D for patients with EA in a health state worse than death, and poor HAQ and SF-36 mental component scores were always independently associated with a state worse than death. EA patients may have specific needs necessitating better management of pain and psychological state.Spinal cordectomy has been described as an effective treatment option in paraplegic patients for the treatment of syringomyelia to manage spasticity, pain and ascending neurological dysfunction. The objective of this study was to investigate the long-term health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after cordectomy in patients with intractable symptoms caused by syringomyelia.Seventeen patients underwent spinal cordectomy for syringomyelia between February 2000 and July 2009. The etiology of syringomyelia was traumatic in 16 patients and spinal ependymoma in one patient. The mean follow-up was 3.8 years (range, 0.9-10.3). The HRQoL was assessed pre- and postoperatively using the EuroQol (EQ; degree of discomfort: 1 = none, 2 = moderate and 3 = extreme) and the short-form SF-36 quality of life score (SF-36). All patients underwent a telephone interview.The mean pre- and postoperative EuroQol-levels for mobility were 1.8 and 1.5; for self-care, 1.9 and 1.5; for usual activities, 2.1 and 1.5; for pain/discomfort, 2.3 and 2.0; and for anxiety/depression, 1.7 and 1.5, respectively. The mean overall EQ visual analogue scale improved postoperatively from 42 points (range, 15-80) to 67 points (range, 10-95) (p = 0.006). The component summary measure for mental health (SF-36) significantly improved postoperatively (p = 0.01). A telephone interview revealed a high subjective patient satisfactory (94.1%) in terms of postoperative sequelae. Following the intervention, 58.8% of all patients were employed full or part-time.Spinal cordectomy may increase the quality of life and can be considered as an ultimo ratio therapy in a selective group of patients with intractable symptoms caused by syringomyelia.To conduct a cross-cultural adaptation of the Core Outcome Measures Index (COMI) into French according to established guidelines.Seventy outpatients with chronic low back pain were recruited from six spine centres in Switzerland and France. They completed the newly translated COMI, and the Roland Morris disability (RMQ), Dallas Pain (DPQ), adjectival pain rating scale, WHO Quality of Life, and EuroQoL-5D questionnaires. After ~14 days RMQ and COMI were completed again to assess reproducibility; a transition question (7-point Likert scale; "very much worse" through "no change" to "very much better") indicated any change in status since the first questionnaire.COMI whole scores displayed no floor effects and just 1.5% ceiling effects. The scores for the individual COMI items correlated with their corresponding full-length reference questionnaire with varying strengths of correlation (0.33-0.84, P < 0.05). COMI whole scores showed a very good correlation with the "multidimensional" DPQ global score (Rho = 0.71). 55 patients (79%) returned a second questionnaire with no/minimal change in their back status. The reproducibility of individual COMI 5-point items was good, with test-retest differences within one grade ranging from 89% for 'social/work disability' to 98% for 'symptom-specific well-being'. The intraclass correlation coefficient for the COMI whole score was 0.85 (95% CI 0.76-0.91).In conclusion, the French version of this short, multidimensional questionnaire showed good psychometric properties, comparable to those reported for German and Spanish versions. The French COMI represents a valuable tool for future multicentre clinical studies and surgical registries (e.g. SSE Spine Tango) in French-speaking countries.Utilities are often a main outcome parameter in economic evaluations. Because depression has a large influence on quality of life, it is expected that utilities are responsive to changes in depression.To evaluate the change in utility derived from different instruments in depression, including the Short Form 6D (SF-6D), the Euroqol based on the UK (EQ-5D(UK)), the Euroqol based on the Dutch tariff (EQ-5D(NL)), and utilities derived from Beck Depression Inventory Second Edition (BDI-II) using the Depression-Free-Day method.This study evaluated the responsiveness, the minimally important difference, and the agreement in utility change derived from the different instruments.The SF-6D, EQ-5D(UK), and EQ-5D(NL) were responsive. The minimally important difference values are in line with previous studies, about 0.3. The Depression-Free-Day method nearly always resulted in positive utility changes, even for subgroups that had no change or deterioration in health status or depression. There was poor agreement between utility changes of the SF-6D, EQ-5D (either EQ-5D(UK) or EQ-5D(NL)), and DFDu.The SF-6D, EQ-5D(UK), and EQ-5D(NL) seem responsive and thus adequate for estimating utility in depression treatment. We do not recommend the use of the Depression-Fee-Day method. The low agreement between utility changes indicates that outcomes of the different instruments are incomparable.To examine the effects of a residential community reintegration program on independent living, societal participation, emotional well-being, and quality of life in patients with chronic acquired brain injury and psychosocial problems hampering societal participation.A prospective cohort study with a 3-month waiting list control period and 1-year follow up.A tertiary rehabilitation center for acquired brain injury.Patients (N=70) with acquired brain injury (46 men; mean age, 25.1y; mean time post-onset, 5.2y; at follow up n=67).A structured residential treatment program was offered directed at improving independence in domestic life, work, leisure time, and social interactions.Community Integration Questionnaire (CIQ), Employability Rating Scale, living situation, school, work situation, work hours, Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale, EuroQOL quality of life scale (2 scales), World Health Organization Quality of Life Scale Abbreviated (WHOQOL-BREF; 5 scales), and the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scale.There was an overall significant time effect for all outcome measures (multiple analysis of variance T(2)=26.16; F(36,557) 134.9; P=.000). There was no spontaneous recovery during the waiting-list period. The effect sizes for the CIQ, Employability Rating Scale, work hours, and GAF were large (partial η(2)=0.25, 0.35, 0.22, and 0.72, respectively). The effect sizes were moderate for 7 of the 8 emotional well-being and quality of life (sub)scales (partial η(2)=0.11-0.20). The WHOQOL-BREF environment subscale showed a small effect size (partial η(2)=0.05). Living independently rose from 25.4% before treatment to 72.4% after treatment and was still 65.7% at follow up.This study shows that a residential community reintegration program leads to significant and relevant improvements of independent living, societal participation, emotional well-being, and quality of life in patients with chronic acquired brain injury and psychosocial problems hampering societal participation.Adequate management of postoperative pain after major spine surgery is often difficult to achieve. We investigated the efficacy of an antineuropathic pain drug, pregabalin (PG), on postoperative pain control and on improvement of quality of life (QoL).Sixty patients scheduled for elective decompressive spine surgery were enrolled. One hour before surgery patients received 300 mg of either oral PG or placebo (PL) and 150 mg of PG or PL twice a day for 48 hours postoperatively. During the first 48 postoperative hours, a continuous infusion of morphine 0.01 mg/kg/h and ketorolac tromethamine 2.5 mg/h was administered. Intravenous morphine in 2-mg aliquots up to a maximum of 10 mg was used as rescue therapy. Pain was measured at rest and during movement using a visual analog scale (VAS score), and side effects were recorded in the first hour and at 4, 8, 12, 24, and 48 hours. Three months and 1 year after discharge, patients were contacted by telephone by 1 of the authors to obtain follow-up information using the EuroQoL questionnaire.During the first 8 postoperative hours, VAS scores at rest were significantly lower in the PG group than in the PL group (P<0.05), whereas VAS scores on movement were significantly lower up to 12 hours after the operation in the PG group (P<0.05). The morphine consumption in the PG group was 3±2 mg, whereas in the PL group it was 9.5±2.5 mg (P<0.05). Postoperative incidence of constipation and nausea/vomiting was higher in the PL group than in the PG group. No significant differences between the 2 groups were observed with regard to other adverse effects. QoL measures revealed an improvement in outcome, especially in movement and in pain dimensions in both groups; however, at 3 months, subjective qualification of overall QoL was better in the PG group than in the PL group. There were no differences in QoL after the 1-year follow-up period.Perioperative PG administration reduces early postsurgical pain at rest and particularly during movement after major spine surgery with less opioid consumption, and it seems to influence the improvement of overall QoL 3 months after surgery.We investigated whether patients who underwent internal fixation for an isolated acetabular fracture were able to return to their previous sporting activities. We studied 52 consecutive patients with an isolated acetabular fracture who were operated on between January 2001 and December 2002. Their demographic details, fracture type, rehabilitation regime, outcome and complications were documented prospectively as was their level and frequency of participation in sport both before and after surgery. Quality of life was measured using the EuroQol-5D health outcome tool (EQ-5D). There was a significant reduction in level of activity, frequency of participation in sport (both p < 0.001) and EQ-5D scores in patients of all age groups compared to a normal English population (p = 0.001). A total of 22 (42%) were able to return to their previous level of activities: 35 (67%) were able to take part in sport at some level. Of all the parameters analysed, the Matta radiological follow-up criteria were the single best predictor for resumption of sporting activity and frequency of participation.To determine the cost-effectiveness of routine administration, irrespective of blood pressure (BP), of a fixed-dose combination of perindopril and indapamide to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.Prospective cost-effectiveness analysis within the Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron-MR Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE) trial, an international, multicentre, randomised controlled trial of 11,140 participants with type 2 diabetes randomly allocated to receive perindopril plus indapamide (4 mg-1.25 mg/day) or placebo.Health-related quality-of-life measured by the EuroQol-5D, resource utilisation, and cost-effectiveness (cost per death averted at 4.3 years' average follow-up, and estimated cost per life-year gained, by extrapolation).The mean health-related quality-of-life score of survivors was 0.80 (on a 0-1 scale [death to full health]), with no difference between treatment groups. Active treatment reduced hospital admissions for coronary heart disease and coronary revascularisation by 5%. For the Australian participants, perindopril-indapamide cost A$1368 per patient during the trial period, but reduced total hospitalisation costs by A$410 and other medication costs (mainly other BP-lowering drugs) by A$332. The absolute reduction in all-cause mortality for the active treatment group was 1.1%, giving a cost per life saved of A$49,200. Lifetime extrapolation gave an estimated cost per life-year saved of A$10,040 (discounted at 5% per year).The combination of perindopril and indapamide in patients with type 2 diabetes appears to be cost-effective.United States National Library of Medicine NCT00145925.Moderate/severe psoriasis combined with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) impairs health-related quality of life (QoL). Etanercept, a fully human tumour necrosis factor-α receptor fusion protein, is approved for treatment of both diseases.To compare patient-reported health outcomes (PROs) of two etanercept regimens in patients with moderate/severe psoriasis and PsA.In this randomized, double-blind, multicenter study, participants received etanercept 50 mg twice weekly (BIW; n = 379) or 50 mg weekly (QW; n = 373) for 12 weeks and open-label etanercept 50 mg QW for 12 additional weeks. PROs included: the EuroQOL-5D (EQ-5D), which measures general health status and consists of the utility index measuring five dimensions of health, and a visual analogue scale (VAS) allowing patients to assess health status; the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), which measures the impact of skin disease on QoL; the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI), an assessment of physical function; the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), which screens for anxiety and depression symptoms; and individual questions on general health, disease activity, fatigue, itching, joint pain and morning stiffness.At baseline, patients reported QoL worse than that seen in many chronic medical conditions. Significant within-group improvements in each PRO occurred from baseline to Week 12 (P < 0.001) in both groups and were maintained at Week 24; DLQI, EQ-5D, HAQ-DI and self assessments improved significantly (P < 0.001) from baseline as early as Week 3. At Week 12, but not Week 24, improvement in DLQI, itching and psoriasis activity was greater in the BIW arm (P ≤ 0.004). Improvements in other PROs were always similar between groups.Greater improvements in PROs specific to skin disorders were seen with etanercept BIW than QW at Week 12, but not at Week 24. Both etanercept regimens led to sustained PRO improvements, starting as early as Week 3.Given the unsustainable costs of the US health-care system, health-care purchasers, payers, and hospital systems are adopting the concept of value-based purchasing by shifting care away from low-quality providers or hospitals. Legislation now allows public reporting of these quality rankings. True measures of quality, such as surgical morbidity and validated questionnaires of effectiveness, are burdensome and costly to collect. Hence, patients' satisfaction with care has emerged as a commonly used metric as a proxy for quality because of its feasibility of collection. However, patient satisfaction metrics have yet to be validated as a measure of overall quality of surgical spine care.We set out to determine whether patient satisfaction is a valid measure of safety and effectiveness of care in a prospective longitudinal spine registry.Prospective longitudinal cohort study.All patients undergoing elective spine surgery for degenerative conditions over a 6-month period at a single medical center.Patient-reported outcome instruments (numeric rating scale [NRS], Oswestry disability index [ODI], neck disability index [NDI], short-form 12-item survey [SF-12], Euro-Qol-5D [EQ-5D], Zung depression scale, and Modified Somatic Perception Questionnaire [MSPQ] anxiety scale), return to work, patient satisfaction with outcome, and patient satisfaction with provider care.All patients undergoing elective spine surgery for degenerative conditions over a 6-month period at a single medical center were enrolled into a prospective longitudinal registry. Data collected on all patients included demographics, disease characteristics, treatment variables, readmissions/reoperations, and all 90-day surgical morbidity. Patient-reported outcome instruments (NRS, ODI, NDI, SF-12, EQ-5D, Zung depression scale, and MSPQ anxiety scale), return to work, patient satisfaction with outcome, and patient satisfaction with provider care were recorded at baseline and 3 months after treatment. Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to determine whether extent of improvement in quality of life (SF-12 physical component summary [PCS]) and disability (ODI/NDI) accurately predicted patient satisfaction versus dissatisfaction. Standard interpretation of area under the curve (AUC) was used: less than 0.7, poor; 0.7 to 0.8, fair; and greater than 0.8, good accuracy. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed to determine if surgical morbidity (quality) or improvement in disability and quality of life (effectiveness of care) were independently associated with patient satisfaction.Four hundred twenty-two (84%) patients completed all questionnaires 3 months after surgery during the reviewed time period (mean age 55±14 years). Lumbar surgery was performed in 287 (68%) and cervical surgery in 135 (32%) patients. There were 51 (12.1%) 90-day complications, including 21 (5.0%) readmissions and 12 (2.8%) return to operating room. Three hundred fifty-eight (84.8%) patients were satisfied with provider care and 288 (68.2%) with their outcome. Satisfaction with provider care: In ROC analyses, extent of improvement in quality of life (SF-12) and disability (ODI/NDI) differentiated satisfaction versus dissatisfaction with care with very poor accuracy (AUC 0.49-0.69). In regression analysis, 3-month morbidity (odds ratio [95% confidence interval]: 1.45 [0.79-2.66]), readmission (0.66 [0.24-1.80]), improvement in quality of life (SF-12 PCS), or improvement in general health (health transition index) were not associated with satisfaction with care. Satisfaction with outcome: In ROC analyses, improvement in quality of life (SF-12) and disability (ODI/NDI) failed to differentiate satisfaction with good accuracy (AUC 0.76). Neither 90-day morbidity (1.05 [0.46-2.34]) nor 90-day readmission (0.27 [0.04-2.04]) was associated with satisfaction with outcome in regression analysis.Patient satisfaction is not a valid measure of overall quality or effectiveness of surgical spine care. Patient satisfaction metrics likely represent the patient's subjective contentment with health-care service, a distinct aspect of care. Satisfaction metrics are important patient-centered measures of health-care service but should not be used as a proxy for overall quality, safety, or effectiveness of surgical spine care.The EuroQoL 5D (EQ-5D) is a questionnaire that provides a measure of utility for cost-effectiveness analysis. The EQ-5D has been widely used in many patient groups, including those with coronary heart disease. Studies often require patients to complete many questionnaires and the EQ-5D may not be gathered. This study aimed to assess whether demographic and clinical outcome variables, including scores from a disease specific measure, the Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ), could be used to predict, or map, the EQ-5D index value where it is not available.Patient-level data from 5 studies of cardiac interventions were used. The data were split into two groups - approximately 60% of the data were used as an estimation dataset for building models, and 40% were used as a validation dataset. Forward ordinary least squares linear regression methods and measures of prediction error were used to build a model to map to the EQ-5D index. Age, sex, a proxy measure of disease stage, Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) angina severity class, treadmill exercise time (ETT) and scales of the SAQ were examined.The exertional capacity (ECS), disease perception (DPS) and anginal frequency scales (AFS) of the SAQ were the strongest predictors of the EQ-5D index and gave the smallest root mean square errors. A final model was chosen with age, gender, disease stage and the ECS, DPS and AFS scales of the SAQ. ETT and CCS did not improve prediction in the presence of the SAQ scales. Bland-Altman agreement between predicted and observed EQ-5D index values was reasonable for values greater than 0.4, but below this level predicted values were higher than observed. The 95% limits of agreement were wide (-0.34, 0.33).Mapping of the EQ-5D index in cardiac patients from demographics and commonly measured cardiac outcome variables is possible; however, prediction for values of the EQ-5D index below 0.4 was not accurate. The newly designed 5-level version of the EQ-5D with its increased ability to discriminate health states may improve prediction of EQ-5D index values.The EuroQoL 5D (EQ-5D) has been widely used in studies of cardiac disease, but its measurement properties in this group are not well established. The study aimed to quantify the relationship between measures commonly used in studies of cardiac disease and the EQ-5D index across different levels of disease severity.Patient-level data from 7 studies of cardiac interventions were used, which included randomised trials and observational studies. Relationships between the EQ-5D index and commonly used cardiac measures, Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) angina severity class, treadmill exercise time (ETT) and scales of the Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ) were examined. Mixed effects linear regression was used to assess these relationships, with the EQ-5D index as the response.Study sample sizes ranged from 68 to 2419. Mean baseline EQ-5D index ranged from 0.77 in patients at diagnosis (95% CI 0.75, 0.78) to 0.43 in patients with advanced disease (95% CI 0.39, 0.48) and differed significantly across studies (p < 0.001). There was evidence of a ceiling effect in patients at diagnosis. The minimum clinically important difference of a one minute increase in ETT was associated with a 0.019 (95% CI 0.014, 0.025) increase in EQ-5D index. One class increase in CCS was associated with a 0.11 (95% CI 0.09, 0.13) decrease in EQ-5D index. A 10 unit increase in SAQ scales was associated with increases between 0.04 and 0.07 in EQ-5D index (95% CIs 0.03, 0.05 and 0.05, 0.08). Tests of heterogeneity indicated the EQ-5D-covariate relationships were consistent across levels of disease severity for ETT and the treatment satisfaction scale of the SAQ, but heterogeneous for age, gender, CCS angina class and other scales of the SAQ.The EQ-5D index varies with coronary disease severity. The relationship between the EQ-5D index and an outcome measure used in cardiac intervention studies, ETT, was consistent across disease severity levels, but the relationship between demographic variables, CCS angina class and most of the SAQ scales and the EQ-5D index was heterogeneous for patients with different levels of coronary disease. Differences in the EQ-5D index associated with clinically important differences in cardiac measures can be quantified and vary between three important examples - angina class, ETT and SAQ.Currently, there is no EQ-5D value set for Poland. The primary objective of this study was to elicit EQ-5D Polish values using the time trade-off (TTO) method.Face-to-face interviews with visitors of inpatients in eight medical centers in Warsaw, Skierniewice, and Puławy were carried out by trained interviewers. Quota sampling was used to achieve a representative sample of the Polish population with regard to age and sex. Modified protocol from the Measurement and Value of Health study was used. Each respondent ranked 10 health states and valued 4 health states using the visual analog scale and 23 using the TTO. Mean and variance stability tests were performed to determine whether using a larger number of health states per respondent would yield credible results. Modeling included random effects and random parameters models.Between February and May 2008, 321 interviews were performed. Modeling based on 6777 valuations resulted in an additive model with all coefficients statistically significant, R(2) equal to 0.45, and value -0.523 for the worst possible health state. Means and variance did not differ significantly for states valued in the middle and at the end of the TTO exercise.This is the first EQ-5D value set based on TTO in Central and Eastern Europe so far. Because the values differ considerably from those elicited in Western European countries, its use should be recommended for studies in Poland. Increasing the number of health states that each respondent is asked to value using TTO seems feasible and justifiable.To determine the impact of rurality in epidemiology, injury severity, health care facilities, length of stay, mortality, functional outcome and quality of life in severe trauma patients.All trauma patients admitted in our Emergency Room between 2001 and 2007. Data was collected from the prospective Trauma Registry and Follow-Up Registry 6 months after the accident. Patients were divided in three groups according to residence area: R (rural), SU (semi-urban) and U (urban). Sex, age, type of injury, length of stay in hospital and intensive care, anatomic severity (AIS), politrauma severity (ISS), physiologic severity (RTS), surveillance probability (TRISS index), pre-hospital care, previous admission in other hospital, intensive care admission, Euroqol and Extended Glasgow Outcome scale and mortality were studied in order to find a relation with rurality.1150 patients were analyzed (214 rural, 219 semi-urban, 717 urban). We found a statistical significant relation between rurality and pre-hospital care with rural patients having less medical approach in pre-hospital (R group: 12,2%; SU group: 17,7%; U group: 70,1%, p < 0,001), previous admission in other hospital with rural patients being more often admitted in another hospital before transfer to the trauma centre (R group: 89,2%; SU group: 85,8%; U group: 61,9%, p < 0,001) and intensive care admission (R group: 82,2%; SU group: 78,5%; U group: 72,4%, com p < 0,006). We did not find any significant relation between other variables studied namely severity and early or late outcome.Living in rural areas does not seam to give more burden of disease to severe trauma patients. Rural patients are similar to those that live in urban areas concerning epidemiology, injury severity and outcome. Despite lack of medical pre-hospital care and higher previous admission in other hospital in rural patients, mortality between groups didn't differ in our trauma centre.This study aims to adapt and validate the Spanish version of the Osteoarthritis Knee and Hip Quality of Life (OAKHQOL) questionnaire. The OAKHQOL was adapted into Spanish using a forward-backward translation methodology. The Spanish version was then validated in a prospective, mixed-design study of 759 patients with hip or knee osteoarthritis (OA). Patients completed the OAKHQOL, Short Form 36 (SF-36), Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index, and the EQ-5D. The internal consistency was evaluated using Cronbach's alpha. Convergent validity was assessed by examining correlations between the OAKHQOL and other patient-reported instruments; known groups' validity was assessed by determining the capacity of the OAKHQOL to discriminate between patients with different levels of disease severity measured using the Lequesne Index. Test-retest reliability was evaluated by calculating the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for all OAKHQOL domains in 409 stable patients with OA. Responsiveness was evaluated by calculating effect sizes among 129 patients undergoing hip or knee replacement. Cronbach's alpha for the five domains of the OAKHQOL ranged from 0.60 to 0.93 while ICCs ranged from 0.75 to 0.81 for all domains except the two social domains. Statistically significant differences (p < 0.001) were observed between patients with different degrees of disease severity on all domains except "social support". The instrument showed convergent validity among hypothesized domains (p < 0.001). Results of the study supported that the Spanish version OAKHQOL questionnaire was a valid instrument to measure health-related quality of life in patients with OA of the lower limb.The aim of this study was to measure health utility and survival in patients with acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema (ACPO), identify predictors of outcome and determine the effect of initial treatment with non-invasive ventilation (NIV) upon outcomes.A randomised controlled trial was conducted at 26 hospitals in the UK. 1069 adults with ACPO were randomised to continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) or standard oxygen therapy. The main outcome measures were survival to 1-5 years, health utility measured using the EQ-5D survey at 1, 3 and 6 months, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).Median survival was 771 days (95% CI 669 to 875), with no difference between the three treatment groups (p = 0.827). Age (HR 1.042, 95% CI 1.031 to 1.052), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (HR 1.13, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.62), cerebrovascular disease (HR 1.41, 95% CI 1.14 to 1.73) and diabetes mellitus (HR 1.31, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.63) independently predicted mortality. Mean EQ-5D scores were 0.578, 0.576 and 0.582 at 1, 3 and 6 months, respectively, with no significant difference between the treatment groups. Male gender (+0.045 QALYs, 95% CI 0.009 to 0.081) and cerebrovascular disease (-0.080 QALYs, 95% CI -0.131 to -0.029) independently predicted health utility.Patients with ACPO have high mortality and reduced health utility. Initial treatment with CPAP or NIPPV does not alter subsequent survival or health utility.To compare the psychometric properties of the Hughston Clinic Questionnaire (HCQ), EQ-5D and SF-6D in patients following arthroscopic partial meniscectomy surgery.A total of 84 participants (86% men; mean age 40) were recruited. The questionnaires were completed on average 5 days, 6 weeks and 6 months after surgery and compared for internal consistency, convergent validity, sensitivity to change and floor and ceiling effects.Internally, the HCQ was the most consistent instrument (α = 0.923) followed by the SF-6D and EQ-5D. The EQ-5D and SF-6D were moderately correlated with the HCQ (ρ = 0.499 and 0.394, respectively). Six weeks after surgery, the most sensitive measures were the HCQ and EQ-5D (effect size: 2.04 and 0.99, respectively), at 6 months, with a smaller cohort (n = 42), again it was the HCQ and EQ-5D (effect size: 2.03 and 1.04, respectively). The SF-6D demonstrated no ceiling or floor effect during the study; the HCQ demonstrated a ceiling affect for 5% of respondents at 6 months after surgery compared to 26% of respondents for the EQ-5D.For this patient population, our findings indicated that the EQ-5D was more consistently responsive to change over time, as a utility index was better at distinguishing differences between groups and reflected the results of the joint-specific HCQ for knee recovery better than the SF-6D. It is therefore recommended that for similar populations, the EQ-5D is preferable to the SF-6D for utilisation alongside the HCQ.To correctly estimate the cost-effectiveness of treatments that reduce COPD exacerbations, the utility gains from preventing exacerbations need to be measured. This requires utility measurement during exacerbations.To assess the ability of the EQ-5D to detect the recovery from moderate COPD exacerbations.In the US, 65 COPD and/or chronic bronchitis patients (≥40 years old smokers or ex-smokers with a history of 10 pack-years) were enrolled within 48 h of symptom onset of the exacerbation. Patients completed the EQ-5D at enrollment and after 7, 14 and 42 days. Symptoms and medication use were recorded in diaries. Change over time and loss of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) due to the exacerbation was estimated. Using standardized response mean (SRM) as the metric of responsiveness, we compared the responsiveness of the EQ-5D to the responsiveness of morning peak expiratory flow rate, rescue medication use and symptom scores. SRMs were also used to assess whether patients with greater improvements in peak expiratory flow rate, rescue medication use, symptom scores, clinician global impression of change, and patient global impression of change had a greater improvement in EQ-5D than patients with smaller improvement.Mean utility index scores (standard deviation) using the US value set were 0.683 (0.209), 0.726 (0.216), 0.768 (0.169) and 0.760 (0.181) at days 1, 7, 14 and 42, respectively. The mean of each patient's lowest index score, either at visit 1 or visit 2, was 0.651 (0.213). Over the course of 6 weeks there was a highly significant improvement in mean utility. The greatest improvement was seen between day 7 and day 14. Patients lost on average 0.00896 QALY (0.0086) or 3.27 (3.13) quality-adjusted life days during the exacerbation. The EQ-5D (SRM: 0.653) was more responsive to change than peak expiratory flow (0.269), rescue medication use (0.343) and sputum symptom scores (0.322) and equally responsive as cough (0.587) and dyspnea (0.638) symptom scores.The EQ-5D is responsive to the recovery from a moderate COPD exacerbation.Coeliac disease is a common chronic autoimmune disorder. Underdiagnosis is common and the quality of life impact of symptoms may be severe. We report a study of symptom duration and quality of life before and after diagnosis in a representative sample of people with diagnosed coeliac disease in the UK.Postal questionnaire of 2000 people with diagnosed coeliac disease, requesting information on date of diagnosis, type and duration of symptoms, and quality of life before and after diagnosis using the EQ-5D instrument.The survey response rate was 40% (788/2000). Mean duration of symptoms prior to diagnosis was 13.2 years, with some evidence of shorter duration in recent years. Respondents reported a mean of 13 consultations with their GP about their symptoms prior to diagnosis. The mean utility value of pre-diagnosis quality of life was 0.56, compared to 0.84 at time of survey, a highly statistically significant improvement of 0.27 (95% c.i. 0.25, 0.30).The symptoms of undiagnosed coeliac disease are associated with a prolonged and substantial decrement to quality of life. These results strengthen the case for detailed examination of the cost-effectiveness of improved methods of detection and diagnosis, including population screening.There is a paucity of information examining quality of life (QOL) and functional results after anorectal surgery. We aim to prospectively evaluate postoperative QOL, pain, functional outcomes, and satisfaction for a large cohort of patients undergoing anorectal surgery. Data were prospectively accrued for consecutive patients undergoing anorectal operations from June 2009 to September 2010. Preoperative and postoperative electronic questionnaires were completed. QOL was evaluated by the European QOL index (EQ-5D) and functional results with the Fecal Incontinence Severity Index (FISI). Satisfaction was assessed: 1) Are you satisfied with surgery? 2) Would you recommend surgery to others? Responses were reported: 1 to 5 (1 = not at all; 5 = a lot). Pain was scored: 1 (no pain) to 10 (worst). One hundred ninety-five patients, 111 (56.9%) females, median age 44 years (range, 18 to 93 years), underwent anorectal surgery for abscess, condyloma, fissure, fistula, hemorrhoids, incontinence, pilonidal disease, pouch problems, tumors, and prolapse. Overall, pain improved significantly with improved QOL (P = 0.03). This correlated with overall postoperative satisfaction (92.4%). A total of 87.7 per cent of patients would recommend their surgery to others. The FISI was similar pre- and postoperatively (P = 0.18) and did not worsen postoperatively irrespective of surgical indication and procedure. Most patients were satisfied after anorectal surgery, which correlated with improved pain and QOL. Functional outcomes did not worsen. This will help counsel patients preoperatively and allay anxiety about postoperative function.The EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D) is a standardised instrument for measuring health-related quality of life (HRQoL). It provides a utility score for health, and a self-rating of HRQoL (EQ-VAS). In this study, the EQ-5D was used to assess HRQoL in survivors of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The influence of tumour stage, adverse events, initial treatment and presence of recurrence was examined.Patients treated for NSCLC were sent a questionnaire, consisting of the EQ-5D, EQ-VAS and questions regarding adverse events. Tumour stage, date and type of initial treatment, and presence of recurrence were derived from patient files once patients had completed the questionnaire and informed consent form. Influencing factors were examined by exploring subgroups and using multiple regression analysis.Of the 374 patients contacted, 260 (70%) returned a completed questionnaire. The EQ-VAS generated an average self-rated health of 69 (SD 18). The mean utility score was 0.74 (SD 0.27). Respondents with severe adverse events (dyspnoea grade ≥ 3) had statistically significantly lower utility scores than respondents without severe adverse events (median 0.52 vs 0.81; p <0.001). Subgroups based on a patient's initial treatment modality revealed statistically significantly different utility scores (p=0.010).The results of the present study provide original data on HRQoL during survival of NSCLC. Adverse events were found to have a considerable impact on HRQoL. This stresses the need to search for treatment modalities that not only improve survival, but also reduce adverse events.Preference-based health state utilities are required for many health economic evaluations. When the direct evidence of such is lacking and only condition-specific scores are available, establishing a 'mapping' relationship between instruments can be useful.Our objective was to map the 11-point Pain Intensity Numerical Rating Scale (PI-NRS-11), a pain-specific instrument ranging from 0 ('no pain') to 10 ('pain as bad as you can imagine'), to the EQ-5D, a preference-based generic instrument.We used web survey data collected from adult US respondents who (i) had ≥ 3 months of neuropathic pain (NP), either painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy (pDPN) or post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN); (ii) were receiving medications treating NP; and (iii) had completed the EQ-5D and PI-NRS-11. We explored indirect and direct mapping approaches. The indirect method took a probabilistic approach using ordered logistic models (OLMs) predicting response levels for each EQ-5D item via repeated Monte Carlo simulations before computing utilities. The direct approach simply predicted EQ-5D utilities directly using ordinary least squares (OLS). Categorical scores of PI-NRS-11 were used as the predictors. Patient age, gender, and pain duration were additionally controlled in the full model specification. Seventy percent of the data were used for estimation and 30% for prediction. Mean square errors (MSEs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of prediction errors were reported.A total of 2719 respondents were included. Mean (SD) age was 55.48 (10.65) years and 56.23% were female. Average NP duration was 61 months and 58% gave scores ≥ 6 on the PI-NRS-11. The clinical pain scores were significantly associated with all EQ-5D items, especially with the 'pain/discomfort' item (p  <  0.001). The observed mean (SD) EQ-5D index was 0.594 (0.22). Predicted utilities and responses showed good representation of the observed ones. The reduced model showed comparable results with the full model while imposing minimum data collection burden. From the reduced model, the predicted mean (SD) EQ-5D index was 0.594 (0.11) from direct estimation and 0.588 (0.19) from indirect estimation. All estimated utilities discriminated health gains/losses along the PI-NRS-11. Lower MSEs and prediction errors were found for EQ-5D >0.2.Findings suggest that EQ-5D utilities or item responses could be estimated on the basis of NP scores. Independent testing of the external validity of the mapping algorithms developed herein is encouraged.Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), a chronic disabling disease associated to physical and psychological impairment, is often left behind in clinical practice and research. This is due to the use of tools that are not complete or mainly designed for the physical condition only. We tested EQ-5D, a valid, simple and brief questionnaire for HRQoL that has never been validated in SSc.Thirty-three consecutive SSc patients referring to our Rheumatology Department and undergoing treatment have been asked to fulfill EQ-5D together with HAQ.EQ-5D demonstrated good acceptability, feasibility and validity in patients affected by SSc. Conceptually equivalent domains of EQ-5D demonstrated a good correlation with HAQ correspondent domains.We suggest the use of EQ-5D in SSc patients as a HRQoL measure in clinical practice, as well as an out come parameter in randomized clinical trials and/or in pharmaco-economic evaluations.Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and other spondylarthritides impose a great impact on the individual in addition to the costs on society, which may be reduced by effective pharmacological treatment. Industry-independent health economic studies should complement studies sponsored by industry.To study secular trends in baseline health utilities in patients commencing tumour necrosis factor (TNF) blockade for arthritis in clinical practice over 7 years; to address utility changes during treatment; to investigate the influence of previous treatment courses; to study the feasibility of health utility measures and to compare them across diagnostic entities.EuroQoL 5 dimensions (EQ-5D) utility data were collected from a structured clinical follow-up programme of anti-TNF-treated patients with RA (N = 2554), PsA (N = 574) or spondylarthritides (N = 586). Time trends were calculated. Completer analysis was used.There were weak or non-significant secular trends for increasing baseline utilities over time for RA, PsA and spondylarthritides. The maximum gain in utilities had already occurred after 2 weeks for all diagnoses and remained stable for patients remaining on therapy. The first and second anti-TNF courses performed similarly.Utilities at inclusion remained largely unchanged for RA, PsA and spondylarthritides over 7 years. Improvement occurred early during treatment and not beyond 6 weeks at the group level. Improvement during the first course was not consistently greater than the second. There were no major differences between RA, PsA and spondylarthritides. EQ-5D proved feasible and applicable across these diagnoses. These "real world" data may be useful for health economic modelling.The aim of this study was to investigate health and disability in people with acute traumatic hand injury 10 years after the accident. A consecutive sample of patients from the Department of Hand Surgery was followed up by means of a postal questionnaire containing the instruments EQ-5D for assessment of health and DASH for assessment of disability. Questions were added about cold sensitivity, numbness and aesthetic problems. The 97 people with various acute hand injuries had greater problems with impairments of hand function than with limitations of activities and participation in daily life. Pain was more common than among the general Swedish population. Cold sensitivity was reported by 78% and was associated with both worse impairments and greater limitations on activity and participation. Despite problems with pain and cold sensitivity, they reported good health and a low degree of disability.The majority of women recover from pregnancy-related lumbopelvic pain within 3 months of delivery. Since biomechanical and hormonal changes from pregnancy are largely reversed by 3 months postpartum, consequently, it is assumed that other factors might interfere with recovery. Relative to the fear-avoidance model and with reference to previous studies, we chose to investigate some pre-decided factors to understand persistent lumbopelvic pain. The evaluation of lumbopelvic pain postpartum is mostly based on self-administered questionnaires or interviews. Clinical classification of the lumbopelvic pain may increase our knowledge about postpartum subgroups. Two hundred and seventy-two consecutively registered pregnant women evaluated at 3 months postpartum, answered questionnaires concerning disability (Oswestry disability index), pain intensity on visual analog scale, health-related quality of life (HRQL, EQ5D), activity level, depressive symptoms (Edinburgh postnatal Depression Scale) and kinesiophobia (Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia). Women were classified into lumbopelvic pain subgroups according to mechanical assessment of the lumbar spine, pelvic pain provocation tests, standard history, and pain drawings. Multiple linear regression analysis was performed to explain the variance of disability. Thirty-three percent of postpartum women were classified with lumbopelvic pain; 40% reported moderate to severe disability. The impacts were similar among subgroups. Pain intensity, HRQL and kinesiophobia explained 53% of postpartum disability due to lumbopelvic pain. In conclusion, one of three postpartum women still had some lumbopelvic pain and the impacts were equivalent irrespective of symptoms in lumbar or pelvic areas. The additional explanations of variance in disability by HRQL and kinesiophobia were minor, suggesting that pain intensity was the major contributing factor.To investigate the efficacy of home-based specific stabilizing exercises focusing on the local stabilizing muscles as the only intervention in the treatment of persistent postpartum pelvic girdle pain.A prospective, randomized, single-blinded, clinically controlled study.Eighty-eight women with pelvic girdle pain were recruited 3 months after delivery.The treatment consisted of specific stabilizing exercises targeting the local trunk muscles. The reference group had a single telephone contact with a physiotherapist. Primary outcome was disability measured with Oswestry Disability Index. Secondary outcomes were pain, health-related quality of life (EQ-5D), symptom satisfaction, and muscle function.No significant differences between groups could be found at 3- or 6-month follow-up regarding primary outcome in disability. Within-group comparisons showed some improvement in both groups in terms of disability, pain, symptom satisfaction and muscle function compared with baseline, although the majority still experienced pelvic girdle pain.Treatment with this home-training concept of specific stabilizing exercises targeting the local muscles was no more effective in improving consequences of persistent postpartum pelvic girdle pain than the clinically natural course. Regardless of whether treatment with specific stabilizing exercises was carried out, the majority of women still experienced some back pain almost one year after pregnancy.In burden of disease studies, several approaches are used to assess disability weights, a scaling factor necessary to compute years lived with disability (YLD). The aim of this study was to quantify disability weights for injury consequences with two competing approaches, (a) standard QALY/DALY model (SQM) which derives disability weights from patient survey data and (b) the annual profile model (APM) which derives weights for the same patient data valued by a panel.Disability weights were assessed using (a) EQ-5D data from a postal survey among 8,564 injury patients 2(1/2), 5, and 9 months after attending the Emergency Department, and (b) preferences of 143 laymen elicited with the time trade-off method.Compared with APM, SQM disability weights were consistently higher. YLD calculated with SQM disability weights was more than three times higher compared with YLD calculated with APM disability weights, for mild injuries with short duration, this increase was six fold.The APM seems the preferred method in burden of injury studies that includes mild conditions with a rapid course, since the SQM approach might overestimate the impact of the latter. The APM, however, might underestimate the impact of injury consequences, especially in case of severe injuries.Three approaches exist to deal with the impact of comorbidity in burden of disease studies - the maximum limit approach, the additive approach, and the multiplicative approach. The aim of this study was to compare the three comorbidity approaches in patients with temporary injury consequences as well as comorbid chronic conditions with nontrivial health impacts.Disability weights were assessed using data from the EQ-5D instrument developed by the EuroQol Group and derived from a postal survey among 2,295 injury patients at 2.5 and 9 months after being treated at an emergency department. We compared the observed and predicted EQ-5D disability weights in comorbid cases using data from injury patients with and without comorbidity who were restored from their injuries at 9 months follow-up. The predicted disability weights were calculated using the maximum limit approach, additive approach, and multiplicative approach. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was used to test whether the values of the observed disability weights and the three model-predicted disability weights were correlated.The EQ-5D disability weight of injury patients increased significantly with the number of comorbid diseases. The ICCs of the additive, multiplicative, and maximum limit models were 0.817, 0.778, and 0.674, respectively. Although the 95% confidence intervals of the ICCs of the three models overlap, the maximum limit model seems to fit less well than the additive and multiplicative models. For mild to moderate chronic disease (disability weight below 0.21), the association between predicted and observed disability weights was low.Comorbidity has a high impact on disability measured with EQ-5D. Ignoring the effect of comorbidity restricts the use of the burden of disease concept in multimorbid populations. Gains from health care or interventions may be easily overestimated if a substantial number of patients suffer from additional conditions. The results of this study found that in accounting for comorbidity effects, all three models showed a strong association between the predicted and observed morbid disability weight, though the maximum limit model seems to fit less well than the additive and multiplicative models. The three models do not fit well in the case of mild to moderate pre-existing disease.This study aimed to evaluate the physical performance and quality of life after an extended abdominoperineal excision of the rectum and the reconstruction with a right-sided unilateral gluteus myocutaneus rotation flap in patients with rectal and anal cancer.Nineteen patients with primary or recurrent rectal or anal cancer were investigated a mean of 26 months (range, 10-39 mo) after the operation. All patients received preoperative radiation therapy. Physical performance, hip movability, balance, and ability to sit were measured according to a prospective protocol, and the patients' perception of pain and quality of life were investigated with questionnaires. Postoperative complications and oncological results were registered retrospectively from patient records of 36 patients who had undergone operations.The timed-stands test showed that 12 of 19 patients performed worse than the upper limit of reference values adjusted for age and gender. The Berg balance scale showed a mean score of 52.8 that is close to the maximum score (56) of the test. The mean calculated EQ-5D (EuroQol Group, Rotterdam, The Netherlands) quality-of-life index was 0.71 based on the 5 questions in the instrument. The ability to sit 10 minutes was reduced in 4 patients, and 8 patients used a cushion or ring. Mean pain score was 20 (visual analog scale from 0 to 100) while sitting, and only 9 of 19 patients were pain free. The hip mobility was normal, but 6 patients had reduced flexion strength on the right side compared with the left side. Twenty-eight of 36 patients (78%) had some kind of early or late complication after surgery. Local recurrence was found in 4 of 36 patients (11%).The oncological outcome of the operation was acceptable, but functional drawbacks must be considered preoperatively in counseling the patient. More research is needed to find ways to preserve better function and well-being.To evaluate the efficacy and economic efficiency of a multimedia, multimodal physical activity program for women undergoing adjuvant therapy following surgery for breast cancer. We conducted a randomized trial with concurrent incremental cost-effectiveness analysis and blinded baseline, 3, 6 and 12-month follow-up assessments amongst women undergoing adjuvant therapy following surgery for breast cancer (n = 89). The intervention was a multimedia, multimodal exercise program comprising strength, balance and endurance training elements. The control was sham flexibility and relaxation program delivered using similar materials. The primary outcome was health-related quality of life (EQ-5D & VAS, EORTC C30, BR23). Economic outcomes included direct health care costs and productivity gains and losses. Participants in the intervention group demonstrated greater improvement in health-related quality of life between baseline and the 3-month assessment [mean (sd) EQ-5D VAS (0-100) baseline: 72.6 (15.6), 3 month: 80.6 (11.6)] when compared to control group participants [baseline: 77.5 (13.5), 3 month: 74.1 (20.6), P = 0.006] and also improved more in terms of physical function [mean (sd) EORTC C30 physical function scale intervention (0-100) baseline: 84.9 (14.8), 3 month: 86.9 (10.7), control baseline: 91.3 (9.6), 3 month: 86.7 (14.9), P = 0.02]. These improvements were not sustained beyond this point. Upper limb volumes were also lower amongst intervention group participants. However, there was low probability that the intervention would be both less costly and more effective than the control condition (range probability = 0.05-50.02% depending on approach). Provision of multimodal exercise programs will improve the short-term health of women undergoing adjuvant therapy for breast cancer but are of questionable economic efficiency.Studies of interventions for dyslexia have focused entirely on outcomes related to literacy. In this study, we considered a broader picture assessing improved quality of life compared with costs. A model served as a tool to compare costs and effects of treatment according to a new protocol and care as usual. Quality of life was measured and valued by proxies using a general quality-of-life instrument (EQ-5D). We considered medical cost and non-medical cost (e.g. remedial teaching). The model computed cost per successful treatment and cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) in time. About 75% of the total costs was related to diagnostic tests to distinguish between children with severe dyslexia and children who have reading difficulties for other reasons. The costs per successful treatment of severe dyslexia were €36 366. Successful treatment showed a quality-of-life gain of about 11%. At primary school, the average cost per QALY for severe dyslexia amounted to €58 647. In the long term, the cost per QALY decreased to €26 386 at secondary school and €17 663 thereafter. The results of this study provide evidence that treatment of severe dyslexia is cost-effective when the investigated protocol is followed.The main objective of the study was to assess the cost and quality of life (QoL) effects of elective dialysis patients during the first year of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) treatment in one Finnish treatment centre.A prospective case-series study was performed involving all elective dialysis patients (n=29) in a Finnish dialysis unit during 2003-2004. Direct costs of ESRD treatment were obtained from the hospital database and the Social Insurance Institution. The QoL effects were measured at the initiation of treatment, at 6 and at 12 months using 15D, a generic QoL instrument.The average cost of ESRD treatment was 69,085 euro. The improvement in the patients' QoL score was statistically and clinically significant during the first treatment year. The most significant changes were seen in the dimensions of breathing and vitality. The condition of patients commencing haemodialysis (HD) was more severe than that of patients commencing peritoneal dialysis (PD) as indicated by worse residual kidney function and poorer quality of life at the initiation.In this small patient population, treatment of ESRD during the first year seemed to improve or maintain the QoL of the patients.We investigated the association between metabolic syndrome (MS) and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) assessed using generalised and obesity-specific QOL instruments.We recruited 456 outpatients [age: 19-81 years, body mass index (BMI): 16.3-36.7 kg/m2] in the primary care division from 12 general hospitals in Korea. HRQOL was measured using EuroQol comprising the health states descriptive system (EQ-5D) and visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) as a general instrument. The Korean Obesity-related QOL scale (KOQOL) composed of six domains was used as a disease-specific QOL instrument. MS was defined on the basis of International Diabetes Federation (IDF) criteria with Korean-specific waist circumference cutoffs (men: 90 cm, women: 85 cm).Subjects with MS displayed significantly higher impairment of EQ-5D and KOQOL. Binary logistic regression analysis of MS patients with controls for age, gender, smoking, alcohol, exercise, education, income, marital status and medication history disclosed odds ratio (OR) values of 2.13 (1.33-3.41) for impaired total KOQOL, 2.07 (1.31-3.27) for impaired physical health, 1.63 (1.03-2.60) for impaired work-related health, 2.42 (1.45-4.04) for impaired routine life, 2.08 (1.27-3.40) for impaired sexual life and 2.56 (1.59-4.11) for diet distress. Among the EQ-5D dimensions, only pain/discomfort displayed a significantly increased OR of 1.60 (1.01-2.56) in MS group.Subjects with MS displayed a significantly impaired HRQOL compared with those without MS. MS and HRQOL were more strongly associated in obesity-specific QOL than in generalised QOL.Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative disease, considered to be one of the major public health problems. Research suggests that patient education is feasible and valuable for achieving improvements in quality of life, in function, well-being and improved coping. Since 1994, Primary Health Care in Malmö has used a patient education programme directed towards OA. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of this education programme for patients with OA in primary health care in terms of self-efficacy, function and self-perceived health.The study was a single-blind, randomized controlled trial (RCT) in which the EuroQol-5D and Arthritis self-efficacy scale were used to measure self-perceived health and self-efficacy and function was measured with Grip Ability Test for the upper extremity and five different functional tests for the lower extremity.We found differences between the intervention group and the control group, comparing the results at baseline and after 6 months in EuroQol-5D (p < 0.001) and in standing one leg eyes closed (p = 0.02) in favour of the intervention group. No other differences between the groups were found.This study has shown that patient education for patients with osteoarthritis is feasible in a primary health care setting and can improve self-perceived health as well as function in some degree, but not self-efficacy. Further research to investigate the effect of exercise performance on function, as well as self-efficacy is warranted.The trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov.NCT00979914.Utility scores are used to estimate Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs), applied in determining the cost-effectiveness of health care interventions. In studies where no preference based measures are collected, indirect methods have been developed to estimate utilities from clinical instruments. The aim of this study was to evaluate a published method of estimating the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and Short Form-6D (SF-6D) (preference based) utility scores from the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in patients with inflammatory arthritis.Data were used from 3 cohorts of patients with: early inflammatory arthritis (<10 weeks duration); established (>5 years duration) stable rheumatoid arthritis (RA); and RA being treated with anti-TNF therapy. Patients completed the EQ-5D, SF-6D and HAQ at baseline and a follow-up assessment. EQ-5D and SF-6D scores were predicted from the HAQ using a published method. Differences between predicted and observed EQ-5D and SF-6D scores were assessed using the paired t-test and linear regression.Predicted utility scores were generally higher than observed scores (range of differences: EQ-5D 0.01 - 0.06; SF-6D 0.05 - 0.10). Change between predicted values of the EQ-5D and SF-6D corresponded well with observed change in patients with established RA. Change in predicted SF-6D scores was, however, less than half of that in observed values (p < 0.001) in patients with more active disease. Predicted EQ-5D scores underestimated change in cohorts of patients with more active disease.Predicted utility scores overestimated baseline values but underestimated change. Predicting utility values from the HAQ will therefore likely underestimate the QALYs of interventions, particularly for patients with active disease. We recommend the inclusion of at least one preference based measure in future clinical studies.Fall incidents represent an increasing public health problem in aging societies worldwide. A major risk factor for falls is the use of fall-risk increasing drugs. The primary aim of the study is to compare the effect of a structured medication assessment including the withdrawal of fall-risk increasing drugs on the number of new falls versus 'care as usual' in older adults presenting at the Emergency Department after a fall.A prospective, multi-center, randomized controlled trial will be conducted in hospitals in the Netherlands. Persons aged ≥65 years who visit the Emergency Department due to a fall are invited to participate in this trial. All patients receive a full geriatric assessment at the research outpatient clinic. Patients are randomized between a structured medication assessment including withdrawal of fall-risk increasing drugs and 'care as usual'. A 3-monthly falls calendar is used for assessing the number of falls, fallers and associated injuries over a one-year follow-up period. Measurements will be at three, six, nine, and twelve months and include functional outcome, healthcare consumption, socio-demographic characteristics, and clinical information. After twelve months a second visit to the research outpatient clinic will be performed, and adherence to the new medication regimen in the intervention group will be measured. The primary outcome will be the incidence of new falls. Secondary outcome measurements are possible health effects of medication withdrawal, health-related quality of life (Short Form-12 and EuroQol-5D), costs, and cost-effectiveness of the intervention. Data will be analyzed using an intention-to-treat analysis.The successful completion of this trial will provide evidence on the effectiveness of withdrawal of fall-risk increasing drugs in older patients as a method for falls reduction.The trial is registered in the Netherlands Trial Register (NTR1593).This study investigates a possible added subjective burden among informal caregivers to care recipients with a mental illness or a combination of mental and somatic illnesses compared with caregivers to care recipients with a somatic illness. The study also investigates the subjective caregiver burden by caregivers' characteristics and objective burden.The association between subjective caregiver burden and socio-demographic factors, objective burden, and health-related quality of life was analyzed in a population of 865 Dutch informal caregivers, using multiple linear regression analysis.Controlling for other factors in the analysis, we found that caring for a recipient with mental illness or a combination of mental and somatic illness was associated with an extra subjective caregiver burden (measured by Caregiver Strain Index). Objective burden, in terms of more than 50 hours of care provision per week, less than three years of caregiving, or living together with the care recipients was associated with higher subjective caregiver burden. Other factors associated with higher subjective caregiver burden were being partners or a child of care recipient, having a paid job, a low health-related quality of life (EQ-5D), or having an illness.This study suggests that caregivers to care recipients with a mental and especially a combination of mental and somatic illnesses have a higher subjective caregiver burden compared with caregivers to care recipients with a somatic illness. Because the study is not representative of all caregivers, more research focusing on identifying and contacting informal caregivers is needed to confirm the result.As researchers seek to include clinical outcomes, the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of participants and meet economic evaluation demands, they are confronted with collecting disparate outcome data where parsimony is imperative. This study addressed this through construction of a short HRQoL measure, the Assessment of Quality of Life (AQoL)-8 from the original AQoL.Data from the AQoL validation database (N = 996) were reanalyzed using item response theory (IRT) to identify the least fitting items, which were removed. The standard AQoL scoring algorithm and weights were applied. Validity, reliability, and sensitivity tests were carried out using the 2004 South Australian Health Omnibus Survey (N = 3015), including direct comparisons with other short utility measures, the EQ5D and SF6D.The IRT analysis showed that the AQoL was a weak scale (Loevinger H = 0.36) but reliable (Mokken rho = 0.84). Removal of the four weakest items led to an 8-item instrument with two items per subscale, the AQoL-8. The AQoL-8 Loevinger H = 0.38 and Mokken rho = 0.80 suggested similar psychometric properties to the AQoL. It correlated (intraclass correlation coefficient) 0.95 (or 90% of shared variance) with the AQoL. The AQoL-8 was as sensitive to six common health conditions as the AQoL, EQ5D, and SF6D.The utility scores fall on the same life-death scale as those of the AQoL. Where parsimony is imperative, researchers may consider use of the AQoL-8 to collect participant self-report HRQoL data that is suitable for use either as reported outcomes or for the calculation of quality-adjusted life-years for cost-utility analysis.To investigate for socially isolated older people, and older people at risk of social isolation: (1) health status and health-related quality of life (HRQL); (2) the relationship between social isolation and health status/HRQL; (3) the relationship between two alternative measures of health status/HRQL.Older people at risk of social isolation (n = 393) completed the EQ-5D and the SF-12. Multiple regression analyses were performed to examine the relationship between levels of social isolation and health status/HRQL, controlling for demographic/clinical characteristics. The agreement between EQ-5D and SF-6D (SF-12) scores was explored using descriptive psychometric techniques.Health status and health state values were much lower than UK general population age-matched norms. After controlling for depression, physical co-morbidities, age, gender, living alone status, employment and accommodation, social isolation was significantly associated, to a degree that was clinically relevant, with EQ-5D DSI, SF-6D (SF-12) and SF-12 MCS scores. The potential for ceiling effects on the EQ-5D with this population was identified.This work highlights the burden that social isolation may have on the health and well-being of older people. The potential HRQL gains from addressing social isolation may be considerable, with those at risk of social isolation also a key target group.Recent studies have demonstrated that measures of health-related quality of life can predict complications and mortality in patients with diabetes, even after adjustment for clinical risk factors.The authors developed a simulation model of disease progression in type 2 diabetes to investigate the impact of patient quality of life on lifetime outcomes and its potential response to therapy. Changes in health utility over time are captured as a result of complications and aging. All risk equations, model parameter estimates, and input data were derived from patient-level data from the Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) trial.Healthier patients with type 2 diabetes enjoy more life years, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and more life years free of complications. A 65-year-old patient at full health (utility = 1) can expect to live approximately 2 years longer and achieve 6 more QALYs than a patient at average health (utility = 0.8), given similar clinical risk factors. For patients with higher EQ-5D utility, the additional years lived without complications contribute more to longer life expectancy than years lived with complications.The authors have developed a model for progression of disease in diabetes that has a number of novel features; it captures the observed relationships between measures of quality of life and future outcomes, the number of states have been minimized, and it can be parameterized with just 4 risk equations. Underlying the simple model structure is important patient-level heterogeneity in health and outcomes. The simulations suggest that differences in patients' EQ-5D utility can account for large differences in QALYs, which could be relevant in cost-utility analyses.The use of global health items permits an efficient way of gathering general perceptions of health. These items provide useful summary information about health and are predictive of health care utilization and subsequent mortality.Analyses of 10 self-reported global health items obtained from an internet survey as part of the Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) project. We derived summary scores from the global health items. We estimated the associations of the summary scores with the EQ-5D index score and the PROMIS physical function, pain, fatigue, emotional distress, and social health domain scores.Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses supported a two-factor model. Global physical health (GPH; 4 items on overall physical health, physical function, pain, and fatigue) and global mental health (GMH; 4 items on quality of life, mental health, satisfaction with social activities, and emotional problems) scales were created. The scales had internal consistency reliability coefficients of 0.81 and 0.86, respectively. GPH correlated more strongly with the EQ-5D than did GMH (r = 0.76 vs. 0.59). GPH correlated most strongly with pain impact (r = -0.75) whereas GMH correlated most strongly with depressive symptoms (r = -0.71).Two dimensions representing physical and mental health underlie the global health items in PROMIS. These global health scales can be used to efficiently summarize physical and mental health in patient-reported outcome studies.We evaluate the effects of mode and order of administration on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) scores.We analyzed HRQOL data from the Clinical Outcomes and Measurement of Health Study (COMHS). In COMHS, we enrolled patients with heart failure or cataracts at three sites (University of California, San Diego, University of California, Los Angeles, and University of Wisconsin). Patients completed self-administered HRQOL instruments at baseline and months 1 and 6 post-baseline, including the EuroQol (EQ-5D), Health Utilities Index (HUI), Quality of Well-Being Scale--self-administered (QWB-SA), and the Short Form (SF)-36v2. At the 6 months follow-up, individuals were randomized to mail or telephone administration first, followed by the other mode of administration. We used repeated measures mixed effects models, adjusting for site, patient age, education, gender, and race.Included were 121 individuals entering a heart failure program and 326 individuals scheduled for cataract surgery who completed the survey by mail or phone at the 6-month follow-up. The majority of the sample was female (53%) and white (86%). About a quarter of the sample had high school education or less (26%). The average age was 66 (36-91 range). HRQOL scores were higher (more positive) for phone administration following mail administration. The largest differences in scores between phone and mail responses occurred for comparisons of telephone responses for those who were randomized to a mail survey first compared with mail responses for those randomized to a telephone survey first (i.e., mode effects for responses that were given on the second administration of the HRQOL measures). The QWB-SA was the only measure that did not display the pattern of mode effects. The biggest differences between modes were 4 points on the SF-36v2 physical health and mental health component summary scores, 0.06 on the SF-6D, 0.03 on the QWB-SA, 0.08 on the EQ-5D, 0.04 on the HUI2, and 0.10 on the HUI3.Telephone administration yields significantly more positive HRQOL scores for all of the generic HRQOL measures except for the QWB-SA. The magnitude of effects was clearly important, with some differences as large as a half-standard deviation. These findings confirm the importance of considering mode of administration when interpreting HRQOL scores.In order to assess and plan for changing healthcare needs, the lack of available information regarding temporal changes in the health-related quality of life of a population must be addressed.This paper aims to describe such changes over 5 years in a general population.Longitudinal postal questionnaire study.UK general practice.This was a longitudinal postal questionnaire study in two general practice populations, using the generic instrument EQ-5D to measure health-related quality of life. Individuals were included if they responded to three postal surveys in 1999, 2001, and 2004 and there were three consecutive values of EQ-5D(index) available between 1999 and 2004.A total of 2498 subjects were included in the study. After adjustment for potential confounders (including ageing), health-related quality of life declined significantly over the observation period. The change in EQ-5D(index) was from 0.79 to 0.74 and for EQ-5D(vas) 76.8 to 73.3 (P for both trends <0.001).Health-related quality of life deteriorated in these populations over 5 years. In an era of improvements in mortality, this has important implications for the use of health-related quality of life data in healthcare planning and resource allocation.Hemiarthroplasty (HA) is generally considered to be the treatment of choice in the most elderly patients with a displaced fracture of the femoral neck. However, there is inadequate evidence to support the choice between unipolar HA or bipolar HA. The primary aim of this study was to analyse the outcome regarding hip function and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients randomised to either a unipolar or bipolar HA. The secondary aim was to analyse the degree of acetabular erosion and its influence upon outcome.One hundred twenty patients with a mean age of 86 years and an acute displaced fracture of the femoral neck were randomly allocated to treatment by either unipolar or bipolar HA. Outcome measurements included hip function (Harris Hip Score, HHS), HRQoL (EQ-5D) and acetabular erosion. The patients were summoned at four and 12 months for follow-up.There were no significant differences between the groups regarding complications. The HHS scores were equal at both follow-ups, but there was a trend towards better HRQoL in the bipolar HA group at four months, EQ-5D (index) score 0.62 vs 0.54 (p = 0.06). Twenty percent of the patients in the unipolar HA group displayed acetabular erosion at the 12-month follow-up compared to 5% in the bipolar HA group (p = 0.03), and there were trends towards worse hip function and HRQoL among patients with acetabular erosion compared to those without: HHS scores 70.4 and 79.3, respectively (p = 0.09), and EQ-5D (index) scores 0.48 and 0.63, respectively (p = 0.13).Unipolar HA and bipolar HA appeared to produce equivalent clinical outcomes after one year, but the significantly higher incidence of acetabular erosion in the unipolar HA group may imply that bipolar HA should be the preferred treatment.The aim of this study was to assess the relationship between long term quality of life (QoL), patient satisfaction, and Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification (POPQ) scores following anterior vaginal repair with mesh.This cross-sectional study included 127 patients who underwent anterior pelvic floor repair with mesh and were assessed 1.03-2.69 years post surgery. One hundred and four women completed the King's Health Questionnaire (KHQ), the Sheffield Prolapse Symptoms Questionnaire, the EurolQoL EQ-5D, and the Patient Satisfaction Index. POPQ scores were recorded for up to 1 year.Patients reported good current QoL and high patient satisfaction. POPQ Aa and Ba scores showed significant improvements from a pre-surgery median of +1 to a median of -3 at 12-month follow-up (P < .001). Patient satisfaction was inversely correlated with Aa scores at 12 months (r(s) = -.360, n = 49, P < .011). There were high QoL scores at an average 2 years after anterior compartment mesh repair.QoL outcomes were good. There was a significant relationship between Aa scores and patient satisfaction, suggesting that this outcome is a key to patient satisfaction.Delegates at the Outcome Measures in Rheumatology (OMERACT) 10 conference (Borneo, 4-8 May 2010) questioned how the new seven-domain Rheumatoid Arthritis Impact of Disease (RAID) score performs as a global measure. Score distributions and associations between the RAID score and patient-reported outcomes (PROs) and demographic variables were examined in a large sample of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.1086 patients in the Oslo RA Register responded to a postal survey with commonly used PROs. Bivariate associations between the RAID score and other measures are reported as Pearson correlation coefficients.The mean RAID was 3.37 ± 2.17. The distribution of the RAID score showed a slight floor effect: 17.5% had a score between 0 and 1, and 14.4% between 1 and 2, whereas only 1.0% and 0.3% had scores between 8 and 9, and 9 and 10, respectively. Correlations between the RAID score and the patient global assessment, Rheumatoid Arthritis Disease Activity Index, Short-Form (SF)-6D and EQ-5D were 0.82, 0.82, -0.77 and -0.73, respectively. Strong correlation was also seen between RAID and pain, the domain with highest weight, whereas correlations to measures of other RAID domains were moderate. The RAID score was higher in women than men (3.49 vs 2.95, p=0.001).The RAID score was correlated more strongly to other global measures than to PROs, reflecting single health domains.The surgical treatment of uterine fibroids represents an important column in the therapy of this disease. Aim of this study was to find out preoperative factors that influence the treatment success of a minimal-invasive surgical -therapy.In a retrospective study 228 patients were assessed. Measures comprised questions on the decision for surgery, satisfaction with the treatment, and the EQ-5D as a measure of QoL.The sample revealed an overall satisfaction with treatment and high QoL. A better postoperative contentment and QoL in patients who felt well informed about the surgical methods and who felt secure with their decision for a specific surgery was found.Regardless of the surgical method, the preoperative consultation and the certainty of the decision turned out to be determinants of the patients' postoperative contentment and QoL. The counseling gynecologist has an essential part in the patients' decision for the treatment.Comorbidity is common. National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines have been created to make best use of resources to improve patients' quality of life but do not currently take account of comorbidity. The effect of multiple chronic conditions with regard to health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is poorly researched. Criticisms of previous research have been due to patient-defined chronic conditions, lack of quantification of the effects of confounding factors, selection of affected patients only, small sample sizes, and upper age limits.This study aims to address these issues, looking into the impact of combinations of chronic conditions on HRQoL.Participants filled in a questionnaire containing general health information, specific respiratory questions, and the EQ-5D measure of HRQoL. The questionnaires were then matched up to their GP records to obtain their disease status for six common chronic diseases (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, ischaemic heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, and cerebrovascular disease).Data from a mailed questionnaire were analysed from 5169 patients aged >16 years from two general practices in Wythenshawe, Manchester in 2004. Completion of the questionnaire was taken to indicate consent to participate.Significant correlations were found between a lower HRQoL and increasing numbers of chronic conditions (P<0.001), increasing age, possible obstructive airway disease, lack of higher education, smoking, and female sex. These all remained significant following regression, except for sex, with number of chronic conditions being a strong predictor of the weighted health state index score, EQ-5D(index) (coefficient = -0.079, P<0.001).Increasing numbers of chronic conditions have a strong negative effect on HRQoL.Patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) are increasingly being used to compare the performance of health care providers. Our objectives were to determine the relative frequency of use of different metrics that can be derived from PROMs, explore clinicians' and patients' views of the options available, and make recommendations.First a rapid review of the literature on metrics derived from two generic (EQ-5D and EQ-VAS) and three disease-specific (Oxford Hip Score; Oxford Knee Score; Aberdeen Varicose Vein Questionnaire) PROMs was conducted. Next, the findings of the literature review were mapped onto our typology of metrics to determine their relative frequency of use, Finally, seven group meetings with surgical clinicians (n = 107) and six focus groups with patients (n = 45) were held which were audio-taped, transcribed and analysed thematically.Only nine studies (9.3% of included papers) used metrics for comparing providers. These were derived from using either the follow-up PROM score (n = 3) or the change in score as an outcome (n = 5), both adjusted for pre-intervention score. There were no recorded uses of the proportion reaching a specified ('good') threshold and only two studies used the proportion reaching a minimally important difference (MID).Surgical clinicians wanted multiple outcomes, with most support expressed for the mean change in score, perceiving it to be more interpretable; there was also some support for the MID. For patients it was apparent that rather than the science behind these measures, the most important aspects were the use of language that would make the metrics personally meaningful and linking the metric to a familiar scale.For clinicians the recommended metrics are the mean change in score and the proportion achieving a MID, both adjusted for pre-intervention score. Both need to be clearly described and explained. For patients we recommend the proportion achieving a MID or proportion achieving a significant improvement in hip function, both adjusted for pre-intervention score.This study uses data from a prospective randomized controlled trial to estimate predictors of pharmaceutical expenditure in diabetes (DM) or cardiovascular disease (CVD) patients. Identifying drivers of pharmaceutical use and the extent to which they are modifiable may inform cost-effective policy-making.The trial followed 260 patients aged >18 years (mean 68) from three general practices for 12 months. Patients had type 2 diabetes (90 patients) or cardiovascular disease (170 patients). Costs for pharmaceuticals prescribed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) were obtained retrospectively at 12 months. Sociodemographic data and health-related quality-of-life (QoL) were recorded from questionnaires. Clinical measures (including body mass index (BMI), blood pressure, high and low density lipoprotein (LDL), and HbA1c) were also collected.Mean pharmaceutical costs for DM patients (AU$4119) was greater than CVD patients (AU$2424). The largest contributor to costs in both groups was pharmaceuticals used for management of conditions other than CVD or DM. QoL (EQ5D) and BMI were significant predictors of costs in both groups. A history of cardiac events, HbA1c, age, and unemployment were significant predictors of costs in the DM group. A diagnosis of heart failure, frequency of hospital admissions, and LDL levels were significant predictors of costs in the CVD group. Roughly one third of total variation of costs can be explained by the regressors in both models.Generalizability will be limited as data was derived from a trial and the study was not powered for this post-hoc analysis. Missing data imputation and self-reporting bias may also impact on results.Factors such as QoL BMI, HbA1c levels, and a history of cardiac events are significant predictors of costs. The results suggest there may be a place for interventions that improve quality-of-life and concurrently reduce pharmaceutical costs in patients with CVD or DM.Dabigatran is an oral direct thrombin inhibitor recently approved for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation (AF) as an alternative to warfarin. The primary advantages of dabigatran are freedom from monitoring and less interaction with other drugs and food. It is ideal for patients who are unwilling to adhere to regular coagulation monitoring or whose therapeutic effect using warfarin is not optimal despite adequate monitoring and management. However, the impact of dabigatran on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and drug compliance has been less evaluated. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical and humanistic outcomes of dabigatran use in Hong Kong.Dabigatran 110 mg twice daily was non-inferior in stroke prophylaxis in AF patients compared to adjusted-dose warfarin; while dabigatran 150 mg twice daily was superior to adjusted-dose warfarin in the real world data in Hong Kong.We retrospectively analyzed 244 patients with newly diagnosed AF and prescribed dabigatran (n = 122) or warfarin (n = 122) for stroke prophylaxis from the Prince of Wales Hospital between January 2010 to November 2011. Clinical outcomes including death, stroke, bleeding, and HRQoL using the EuroQol EQ-5D-5L were compared between patients on dabigatran and warfarin.The median duration of follow-up was 310 days. Stroke occurred in 2 patients (1.64%) in the dabigatran group and 4 in the warfarin group (3.28%) (adjusted hazard ratio [HR]: 0.53, P = 0.47). Bleeding of any degree occurred in 28 patients on dabigatran and 38 patients on warfarin (adjusted HR: 0.76, P = 0.28), with age over 70 years and renal impairment being significant positive predictors of bleeding (P = 0.01 and 0.02, respectively). Dyspepsia was the most common adverse event of dabigatran over warfarin (19.7% vs 8.2%, P = 0.01). Rate of discontinuation of dabigatran was 25.4%, with dyspepsia being the most common cause for discontinuation (6 patients, 4.92%). There was no significant difference in drug compliance or HRQoL at 1 year between the 2 groups (utility score 0.77 [dabigatran] vs 0.74 [warfarin], P = 0.28).In Hong Kong, the clinical efficacy and safety of dabigatran were comparable to that of warfarin, and drug compliance and HRQoL of using dabigatran and warfarin were similar after 1 year of use.Aim of this study was to analyze the effects of single diseases and multimorbidity on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in the elderly. Based on data from telephone interviews with the getABI cohort, empirical analyses were conducted. To evaluate HRQoL, 2,120 participants (76.29 +/- 4.48 years old, 46.3% male) completed the EQ-5D and the SF-8 questionnaire. There is an inverse relationship between HRQoL and multimorbidity in the elderly. In comparison to psychological dimensions, physical domains decrease more clearly with rising morbidity. Analyzing the influence of single diseases, particularly cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases diagnosed in the last two years, the long-term existence of peripheral arterial disease and dysfunctions of the musculoskeletal system result in severe loss of HRQoL in older persons. Information on HRQoL can help health care providers obtain a comprehensive picture of their older and often multimorbid patients' state and perception of health. An optimized health care process should not only focus on the individual diagnoses, but also on the extent of multimorbidity and associated HRQoL effects.The purpose of this study was to determine the effectiveness of a multidisciplinary intervention program on nutritional intake and of nutritional intake on nutritional status and quality of life in older patients treated for a hip fracture.A controlled prospective cohort study included 66 patients in the control group and 61 patients in the intervention group, aged over 65 and sustaining a hip fracture with subsequent operative intervention. Postoperatively, the control group received standard nutritional care and the intervention group multidisciplinary nutritional care that focused on nutritional support during hospitalisation and a transfer of nutritional care after discharge. Nutrient intakes were monitored with food records. Nutritional status was determined by the Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA), and bioelectrical impedance analysis was used to assess body cell mass (BCM). The EuroQol (EQ-5D) was used to assess quality of life. Patients were evaluated at admission and three months postoperatively.There was a significant difference in the daily energy intake of patients between both groups during the first seven days postoperatively: 1127 kcal (±309) in the control group and 1292 kcal (±280) (P = 0.002) in the intervention group. Mean protein intake in the intervention group (57 g (±12)) was significantly higher than in the control group (48 g (±14), P = 0.000). The intervention group demonstrated a significantly lower reduction of EQ-5D index scores compared with the control group (P = 0.004) after three months. At three months, significantly fewer patients in the intervention group were classified as malnourished or at risk of malnutrition.Among elderly patients with a hip fracture, a multidisciplinary postoperative approach of nutritional care was associated with an increase of energy and protein intake during hospitalisation. After three months follow-up there were fewer malnourished patients in the intervention group, and the decline in quality of life was lower than in the control group. There were no advantages of multidisciplinary nutritional care on body cell mass.The goal of cardiac rehabilitation programs is not only to prolong life but also to improve physical functioning, symptoms, well-being, and health-related quality of life (HRQL). The aim of this study was to document the long-term effect of a 1-month inpatient cardiac rehabilitation intervention on HRQL in Austria.Patients (N = 487, 64.7% male, age 60.9 +/- 12.5 SD years) after myocardial infarction, with or without percutaneous interventions, coronary artery bypass grafting or valve surgery underwent inpatient cardiac rehabilitation and were included in this long-term observational study (two years follow-up). HRQL was measured with both the MacNew Heart Disease Quality of Life Instrument [MacNew] and EuroQoL-5D [EQ-5D].All MacNew scale scores improved significantly (p < 0.001) and exceeded the minimal important difference (0.5 MacNew points) by the end of rehabilitation. Although all MacNew scale scores deteriorated significantly over the two year follow-up period (p < .001), all MacNew scale scores still remained significantly higher than the pre-rehabilitation values. The mean improvement after two years in the MacNew social scale exceeded the minimal important difference while MacNew scale scores greater than the minimal important difference were reported by 40-49% of the patients.Two years after rehabilitation the mean improvement in the EQ-5D Visual Analogue Scale score was not significant with no significant change in the proportion of patients reporting problems at this time.These findings provide a first indication that two years following inpatient cardiac rehabilitation in Austria, the long-term improvements in HRQL are statistically significant and clinically relevant for almost 50% of the patients. Future controlled randomized trials comparing different cardiac rehabilitation programs are needed.The current analysis compares changes in pain with changes in function and health status in individuals with painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN). The post hoc analysis is based on a 12week, multinational, placebo-controlled trial of pregabalin in which 401 patients were randomized to treatment. Study measures included the Brief Pain Inventory short-form (BPI-sf), EQ-5D and other patient-reported outcomes. Cutpoints were derived on the BPI-sf 0-10 average pain numeric rating scale [NRS] to classify pain grades of "mild" (1-3), moderate (4-6) and severe (7-10), adjusting for geographical regions where data were collected. Two different metrics were used to classify the importance of change in pain severity from baseline to 12weeks: changes in pain severity grades (defined by cutpoint categories) and percent reduction in the NRS (categories ranging from 0-9% to 50%). An improvement in one pain grade or a 30% reduction in the NRS served as determinants of a clinically important difference. Patients with a one-grade reduction in pain severity, either from "severe-to-moderate" or "moderate-to-mild," had a 3-point improvement the BPI-sf Pain Interference Index (PII; a composite measure of function); a reduction from "severe-to-mild" pain corresponded to a 6-point improvement in the PII. Similarly, a reduction in the NRS of 30% and 50% corresponded to a 3-point and a 5-point improvement in the PII, respectively. Changes in pain were also associated with changes in health status. Results suggest that patients whose pain is not reduced to a mild level of severity can still experience clinically important changes in function and health status.The proportion of people in Vietnam aged 60 and above has increased rapidly in recent decades. However, there is a lack of evidence, particularly in rural settings, on their health-related quality of life (HRQoL) within the context of socioeconomic changes and health-sector reform in the country. This study assesses the level and determinants of HRQoL in a rural district in order to provide evidence for designing and implementing appropriate health policies.In 2007, 2,873 people aged 60+ living in 2,240 households randomly selected from the FilaBavi demographic surveillance site (DSS) were interviewed using a generic EQ-5D questionnaire to assess their HRQoL. Socioeconomic characteristics of the people and their households were extracted from the DSS's re-census that year, and the EQ-5D index was calculated based on the time trade-off tariff. Multilevel-multivariate linear regression analysis was performed to measure the affect of socioeconomic factors on HRQoL.The EQ-5D index at old age was found to be 0.876 (95%CI: 0.870-0.882). Age between 60-69 or 70-79 years, position as household head, working until old age, literacy, and belonging to better wealth quintiles are determinants of higher HRQoL. Ageing has a primary influence on the deterioration of HRQoL at older ages, mainly due to reduction in physical rather than mental functions. Educational disparity in HRQoL is low, and exists mostly between basic and higher levels of education. Being a household head and working at old age are advantageous for attaining better quality of life in physical rather than psychological terms. Economic conditions affect HRQoL through sensory rather than physical utilities. Long-term living conditions more likely affect HRQoL than short-term economic conditions.HRQoL at old age is at a high level, and varies substantially according to socioeconomic factors. Its determinants should be addressed in social and health policies designed to improve health of older people, especially among the most vulnerable groups.Smoking is an important modifiable risk factor in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). We investigated differences in quality of life (QoL) between patients who quitted smoking during follow-up and persistent smokers.Cohort study.Data of 711 consecutively enrolled patients undergoing vascular surgery were collected in 11 hospitals in the Netherlands. Smoking status was obtained at baseline and at 3-year follow-up. A 5-year follow-up to measure QoL was performed with the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and Peripheral Arterial Questionnaire (PAQ).After adjusting for clinical risk factors, patients, who quit smoking within 3 years after vascular surgery, did not report an impaired QoL (EQ-5D: odds ratio (OR) = 0.63, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.28-1.43; PAQ: OR = 0.76, 95% CI = 0.35-1.65; visual analogue scale (VAS): OR = 0.88, 95% CI = 0.42-1.84) compared with patients, who continued smoking. Current smokers were significantly more likely to have an impaired QoL (EQ-5D: OR = 1.86, 95% CI = 1.09-3.17; PAQ: OR = 1.63, 95% CI = 1.00-2.65), although no differences in VAS scores were found (OR = 1.17, 95% CI = 0.72-1.90).There was no effect of smoking cessation on QoL in PAD patients undergoing vascular surgery. Nevertheless, given the link between smoking, complications and mortality in this patient group, smoking cessation should be a primary target in secondary prevention.The European Quality of Life 5-Dimensions questionnaire is one of the most commonly used measures of health-related quality of life.To present the feasibility, reliability and validity of the Hebrew version of the EQ-5D.We conducted face-to-face interviews with a representative sample (n = 1666) of the Israeli Jewish population. The data collected included demographic and medical information, and self-valuation of health using the EQ-5D descriptive system, Visual Analogue Scale and Time Trade-Off. Construct validity was assessed by assuming that older individuals, those with a greater burden of diseases, and those reporting experience with their own severe illness would have lower EQ-5D indexes, VAS and TTO values. Test-retest reliability was assessed in a small sample (n = 50) that was reevaluated after a 3 week interval.Test-retest reliability of the EQ-5D and VAS was very high (r > or = 0.85). Reliability of the TTO was moderate (r = 0.48). There were significant differences in the EQ-5D index, profiles, VAS and TTO between healthy and sick respondents and younger and older respondents, indicating good validity of the instrument.The Hebrew translation of the EQ-5D is a practical, reliable and valid instrument for assessing the health-related quality of life of the general Israeli Jewish population.A novel indicator called health-adjusted leave days (HALDs) is proposed. It integrates the opposite level of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) with the sick leave days (LDs) before return-to-work (RTW) to better measure the impact of injuries on occupational health.A total of 1,167 limb injuries were consecutively recruited in a teaching hospital from January to December 2009. The number of LDs was calculated between the date of injury and the first episode of RTW. Each subject was repeatedly assessed with EuroQol instrument (EQ-5D) before RTW. The HRQoL index is defined as 1 minus the EQ-5D utility and re-scaled to 0-1 range to reflect the impact of injuries. The expected HALD of each group is calculated by integrating the product of the proportion of non-RTW function and the mean HRQoL index function over the days followed up to 2 years for the group. We compared the expected HALDs between subgroups according to various demographic characteristics and consequences of injury.Older and female workers tended to have longer LDs than men and younger workers, with an increase in percentage change of 16.0 or 139.5 %, respectively. After adjusting for HRQoL index, the percentages for HALDs were changed to 28.7 or 186.6 %, respectively. The percentages for the less-educated workers and blue collar workers were 185.7 and 155.8 %. The expected HALDs showed statistical significant differences in all subgroup analyses.We believed that the proposed HALD could better measure the impact of injuries and is potentially useful for the clinical decision and industrial policy-making with respect to the assessment of the importance of limb injury due to a worker's sick leaves.To estimate the cost-effectiveness of temsirolimus compared to interferon-alpha for first line treatment of patients with advanced, poor prognosis renal cell carcinoma, from the perspective of the UK National Health Service.A decision-analytic model was developed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of temsirolimus. The clinical effectiveness of temsirolimus compared with interferon-alpha and the utility values (using EQ-5D tariffs) were taken from a recent phase III randomized clinical trial. Cost data were obtained from published literature and based on current UK practice. The effect of parameter uncertainty on cost-effectiveness was explored through extensive one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.Compared to interferon-alpha, temsirolimus treatment resulted in an incremental cost per QALY gained of pound94,632; based on an estimated mean gain of 0.24 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) per patient, at a mean additional cost of pound22,331 (inflated to 2007/8). The cost per QALY for patient subgroups ranged from pound74,369 to pound154,752. The probability that temsirolimus is cost-effective compared to interferon-alpha at a willingness to pay threshold of pound30,000 per QALY for all patient groups is expected to be close to zero. The cost per QALY was sensitive to the clinical effectiveness parameters, health state utilities, drug costs and the cost of administration of temsirolimus.Temsirolimus has been shown to be clinically effective compared to interferon-alpha offering additional health benefits, however, with a cost per QALY in excess of pound90,000, it may not be regarded as a cost-effective use of resources in some health care settings.One of the objectives in the treatment of the inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is improving the patient's quality of life. However, we do not dispose of validated criteria to determine the questionnaire's scoring threshold that has to be reached in order to be able to assert that the patients' quality of life has normalized.To determine the normality punctuation cutoff in the IBD specific quality of life questionnaire IBDQ-36.Cross-sectional study in a random sample of IBD patients, who have completed the questionnaires IBDQ-36 and EuroQol-5D. The IBDQ-36 normality was calculated according to its equivalence with the EuroQol-5D tariff ≥ 0.90, which corresponds to the 95% CI of the average obtained in a Spanish general population.218 patients were included. According to the EuroQol-5D tariff, 70 patients were considered to have a normal quality of life and 148 a quality of life poorer than the general population. The IBDQ-36 scoring was significantly higher in the normal quality of life group (222.9 ± 22.8 vs. 171.4 ± 44.8 in the bad quality of life group, p<0.001). According to the linear regression between IBDQ-36 and EuroQol-5D, the cutoff point is 209, with a sensitivity and specificity to predict normality of 0.74 and 0.71 respectively.Scores of the IBDQ-36 equal or superior to 209 suggest quality of life comparable to that perceived by the general population. This study allowed to set a threshold of normality in the management of the inflammatory bowel diseases.To evaluate the quality of life (QOL) in patients with breast cancer at different TNM stages and to estimate the value of EuroQol Five Dimension Indicator (EQ-5D) in measuring QOL among Chinese breast cancer patients.A survey with Quality of Life Instruments for Cancer Patients-Breast Cancer (QLICP-BR) and EQ-5D was undertaken in breast cancer patients who had completed their standardized treatment (except for the endocrine treatment) six months ago. Chi-square test, one-way ANOVA, and covariance analysis were used to evaluate the possible factors influencing the QOL of breast cancer patients. Simultaneously, with the results of Quality of Life Instruments for Cancer Patients-General Module (QLICP-GM, which is included in QLICP-BR.) and the total scores of QLICP-BR as standard, we conducted Pearson correlation analysis to evaluate the value of EQ-5D.A total of 178 female breast cancer survivors were collected from March 2010 to September 2010. There were 47 cases (26.4%) at stage 0 and I, 81 cases (45.5%) at stage II, and 50 cases (28.1%) at stage III and IV. The total standardized score of QLICP-BR was 72.55 ± 3.10 in patients at stage 0 and I, 64.09 ± 2.69 in patients at stage II and 58.21 ± 3.00 in patients at stage III and IV. The total standardized score of QLICP-BR and social domain of patients at stage 0 and I were higher than patients at stage II (all P < 0.05). The total standardized score of QLICP-BR, specific domain of breast cancer, psychological, social and physical domains of patients at stage 0 and I were higher than patients at stage III and IV (all P < 0.05). Covariance analysis showed that QOL standardized scores were significantly different across TNM stages when age, degree of education, birth place (metropolis or rural), occupation, domestic income, and medical insurance were controlled (P = 0.002). Correlation analysis indicated that EQ-5D has a positive correlation with QLICP-GM and QLICP-BR (all P < 0.05).QOL of patients with early stage breast cancer is better than those at late stage. Early diagnosis and treatment can improve QOL of breast cancer patients. Chinese version of EQ-5D can well detect the differences of QOL among patients with different TNM stages, which can be used for evaluating QOL in Chinese female breast cancer patients.The outcome of orthopaedic surgery such as total hip replacement (THR) or total knee replacement (TKR) is commonly given by the change in mean scores on patient-reported outcome measures (Prom's). This may give the impression that all enrolled patients have experienced an improvement. But the Swedish hip registry and other studies report a reduction of complaints in 80-85 % of patients ("responders"), with the remainder (approximately one in six) remaining unchanged or reporting worse complaints ("non-responders"). According to Cohen, the degree of success in the "responders" group can be subdivided into excellent, good and moderate. For a given treatment, a total of 5 different outcome groups can therefore be defined: excellent, good, moderate, unchanged and worse. Allocation to the groups is based on the "relative effect per patient" (REPP). The REPP is calculated as the base-line score minus the post-treatment score divided by the baseline score. The maximum possible REPP is 1; a REPP of 0 means no effect and a negative REPP means deterioration. Allocation to the outcome groups is as follows: excellent 0.95 to 1 REPP, good 0.5 to 0.95 REPP, moderate over 0.2 to 0.5 REPP, unchanged -0.2 to 0.2 REPP and worse below -0.2 REPP.Our local arthroplasty register was used to evaluate the 1-year outcomes of THR and TKR patients operated between March 2003 and November 2008, using WOMAC scores and EuroQoL scores. Only patients with complete data sets and unilateral THR/TKR were included. The success rate given by the REPP method was compared with that of the "responder rate" method defined by the OMERACT-OARSI criteria.With the WOMAC questionnaire, outcomes were as follows (THR/TKR): excellent 29/14 %, good 51/54 %, moderate 11/13 %, unchanged at 5/12 %, worse 4/7 %. The corresponding values for the EuroQoL were (THR/TKR): excellent 16/6 %, good 41/42 %, moderate 25/28 %, unchanged 12/16 %, worse 6/8 %. For THR, success rates were 92 % using the "responder rate" method (OMERACT-OARSI criteria) and 91 % using the REPP method with the WOMAC.Calculation of the REPP and the subsequent allocation to outcome groups is simple. The distribution of outcomes depends on the intervention (THR results better than TKR) and the patient questionnaire used (better results with a condition-specific than a generic questionnaire). The proportion of "unchanged" and "moderate" outcomes was greater with the generic questionnaire than with the condition-specific questionnaire, while the proportion of "worse" outcomes was similar for the two instruments. Partitioning of the degree of success into sub-groups, based on the REPP, provides more information for both the patient and the orthopaedic surgeon.The aim of the present study was to report health-related quality of life, patient satisfaction with present shoulder function, and physical activity 8-11 years after arthroscopic subacromial decompression (ASD) in patients with primary impingement syndrome stage II and early stage III. Ninety-five patients (105 shoulders, 48 female), mean age 54 years (range, 26-69) were included.Quality of life in relation to shoulder function was evaluated with the Western Ontario Osteoarthritis Shoulder Index (WOOS). For perceived health, the EQ-5D and EQ rating scale were used and patient satisfaction was evaluated with a 5-grade Likert scale. To describe the patient's level of physical activity, the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) was used. Pain, during activity and at rest, was evaluated using a visual analogue scale (VAS), and Constant score to report the level of shoulder function.In all patients (n = 105), the WOOS showed 83% of optimal shoulder-related quality of life. The mean value for the EQ-5D(index), in all patients was 0.77, while the EQ rating scale mean value was 75% of best imaginable health. Forty-one patients were active at a high level of physical activity and 34 at moderate level. Eighty-eight patients stated very or quite satisfied with current shoulder function. Fifty-three patients indicated no pain during activity and 70 patients no pain at rest. The mean of the Constant Score (n = 99) was 77 points.Positive long-term results were shown, as patients reported a high level of health-related quality of life, patient satisfaction and physical activity 8-11 years after ASD.Patients who require prolonged mechanical ventilation (PMV) are increasing and producing financial burdens worldwide. This study determines the cost per QALY (quality-adjusted life year), out-of-pocket expenses, and lifetime costs for PMV patients stratified by underlying diseases and cognition levels.A nationwide sample of 50,481 patients with continual mechanical ventilation for more than 21 days was collected during 1997-2007. After stratifying the patients according to specific diagnoses, a latent class analysis (LCA) was performed to categorise PMV patients with multiple co-morbidities into several homogeneous groups. The survival functions were estimated for individual groups using the Kaplan-Meier method and extrapolated to 300 months through a semi-parametric method. The survival functions were adjusted using an EQ-5D utility value derived from a convenience sample of 142 PMV patients to estimate quality-adjusted life expectancies (QALE). Another convenience sample of 165 patients was used to estimate the out-of-pocket expenses. The lifetime expenditures paid by the single-payer National Health Insurance (NHI) system and patients' families were estimated by multiplying average monthly expenditures by the survival probabilities and summing the values over lifetime.PMV therapy costs more than 100,000 U.S. dollars (USD) per QALY for all patients with poor cognition. For patients with partial cognition, PMV therapy costs less than 56,000 USD per QALY for those with liver cirrhosis, intracranial or spinal cord injuries, and 57,000-69,000 USD for patients with multiple co-morbidities under age of 65. The average lifetime cost of PMV was usually below 56,000 USD. The out-of-pocket expenses were often more than one-third of the total cost of treatment.PMV treatment for patients with poor cognition would cost more than 5 times Taiwan's GDP (gross domestic products), or less cost-effective. The out-of-pocket expenses for PMV provision should also be considered in policy decision.The purpose of this study was to estimate the quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) and the expected lifetime utility loss of patients with prolonged mechanical ventilation (PMV).PMV was defined as more than 21 days of mechanical ventilation. A total of 633 patients fulfilled this definition and were followed for 9 years (1998-2007) to obtain their survival status. Quality of life of 142 patients was measured with the EuroQol five-dimensional (EQ-5D) questionnaire during the period 2008 to 2009. The survival probabilities for each time point were adjusted with a utility measurement of quality of life and then extrapolated to 300 months to obtain the QALE. We compared the age-, gender-matched reference populations to calculate the expected lifetime utility loss.The average age of subjects was 76 years old. The life expectancy and loss of life expectancy were 1.95 years and 8.48 years, respectively. The QALE of 55 patients with partial cognitive ability and the ability to respond was 0.58 quality-adjusted life years (QALY), whereas the QALEs of 87 patients with poor consciousness were 0.28 and 0.29 QALY for the EQ-5D measured by family caregivers and nurses, respectively. The loss of QALE for PMV patients was 9.87 to 10.17 QALY, corresponding to a health gap of 94% to 97%.Theses results of poor prognosis would provide stakeholders evidence for communication to facilitate clinical decisions. The estimation may be used in future studies to facilitate the cost-effectiveness and reduction of the health gap.This study reports how QOL (quality of life) assessments differ between patients on prolonged mechanical ventilation (PMV) and their proxies (family caregivers and nurses).We enrolled consecutive subjects on PMV for more than 21 days from five institutions. We conducted QOL assessments using the Taiwanese version of the EQ-5D in face-to-face interviews. Direct caregivers (family members and nurses) also completed the EQ-5D from the patient's point of view.For 55 of the 142 enrolled patients who were able to assess their QOL, we recruited 44 patient-family caregiver pairs, 53 patient-nurse pairs, and 42 family caregiver-nurse pairs. There were 81 family caregiver-nurse pairs out of 87 patients with poor cognition. The agreement between patient-family caregiver pairs was generally higher than that of patient-nurse pairs. As the proportions of exact agreement between family caregivers and nurses for patients with poor cognition were 98-99% for observable dimensions of mobility, self-care, and usual activities, they lead to a minimal difference in the final values.QOL assessments from family caregivers agreed more closely with patients than did those from nurses using EQ-5D evaluations for patients with clear cognition, but either proxy was acceptable for rating PMV patients with poor cognition.Multimorbidity in the older population is well acknowledged to negatively affect health-related quality of life (HRQL). Several studies have examined the independent effects of single diseases; however, little research has focused on interaction between diseases. The purpose of this study was to assess the impact of six self-reported major conditions and their combinations on HRQL measured by the EQ-5D.The EQ-5D was administered in the population-based KORA-Age study of 4,565 Germans aged 65 years or older. A generalised additive regression model was used to assess the effects of chronic conditions on HRQL and to account for the nonlinear associations with age and body mass index (BMI). Disease interactions were identified by a forward variable selection method.The conditions with the greatest negative impact on the EQ-5D index were the history of a stroke (regression coefficient -11.3, p < 0.0001) and chronic bronchitis (regression coefficient -8.1, p < 0.0001). Patients with both diabetes and coronary disorders showed more impaired HRQL than could be expected from their separate effects (coefficient of interaction term -8.1, p < 0.0001). A synergistic effect on HRQL was also found for the combination of coronary disorders and stroke. The effect of BMI on the mean EQ-5D index was inverse U-shaped with a maximum at around 24.8 kg/m².There are important interactions between coronary problems, diabetes mellitus, and the history of a stroke that negatively affect HRQL in the older German population. Not only high but also low BMI is associated with impairments in health status.To analyse the psychometric properties of the EQ-5D in German stroke survivors undergoing neurological rehabilitation.The EQ-5D, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and the Stroke Impact Scale (SIS) were completed before (210 subjects) and after (183 subjects) a patient education programme in seven rehabilitation clinics in Bavaria, Germany. A postal follow-up was conducted after 6 months. Acceptance, validity, reliability and responsiveness of the EQ-5D were tested. The SIS subscales were used as external anchors to classify the patients into change groups between the measurements.The proportion of missing answers ranged from 4.7 to 8.6%. Between 16 and 19% reported no problems in any EQ-5D dimension. At baseline, correlations between EQ-5D index and the SIS subscales ranged from 0.15 (communication) to 0.60 (mobility). Correlations with the EQ VAS were slightly smaller. All scores were reliable in test-retest with intraclass correlations ranging from 0.67 to 0.81. EQ-5D index and EQ VAS were consistently responsive only to improvements in health, showing small- to medium effect sizes (0.27-0.42).The EQ-5D has shown reasonable validity, reliability and, more limited, responsiveness in stroke patients with mild to moderate limitations of functional status, allowing it to be used in clinical trials in rehabilitation.Background. Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic, difficult to treat condition. The efficacy of Aloe vera in treating IBS symptoms is not yet proven. The purpose of this study was to determine if Aloe vera is effective in improving quality of life. Methods. A multicentre, randomised, double-blind, cross-over placebo controlled study design. Patients were randomised to Aloe vera, wash-out, placebo or placebo, washout, Aloe vera. Each preparation (60 mL) was taken orally twice a day. Patient quality of life was measured using the Gastrointestinal Symptoms Rating Score, Irritable Bowel Syndrome Quality of Life, EuroQol and the Short-Form-12 at baseline and treatment periods 1 and 2. Results. A total of 110 patients were randomised, but only 47 completed all questionnaires and both study arms. Statistical analysis showed no difference between the placebo and Aloe vera treatment in quality of life. Discussion. This study was unable to show that Aloe vera was superior to placebo in improving quality of life. Drop outs and other confounding factors may have impacted on the power of the study to detect a clinically important difference. Conclusion. This study failed to find Aloe vera superior to placebo in improving quality of life proven Irritable Bowel Syndrome patients.The syndrome of fixed dystonia includes both CRPS-dystonia and psychogenic dystonia. The underlying mechanisms are unclear, but a high prevalence of neuropsychiatric illness has previously been reported.Clinical and neuropsychiatric follow-up study by telephone and self-administered instruments (HADS, SDQ-20, DES II, EQ-5D), on 41 patients with fixed dystonia after a mean of 7.6 (+/-3.6) years.We obtained information on clinical outcome in 35 (85.4%) patients and neuropsychiatric questionnaire data in 22 (53.7%). Eighty-three percent were women. Thirty-one percent had worsened, 46% were the same and 23% had improved, of whom 6% had major remissions. At follow-up, mean duration of illness was 11.8 (+/-4.9) years and mean age 43.2 (+/-14.8) years. Except for 1 patient who was re-diagnosed with corticobasal degeneration, the diagnosis remained unchanged in others. Forty-one percent had scores indicating anxiety and 18% indicating depression; 18% scored within the range of dissociative/somatoform disorders on DES II and 19% on SDQ-20. The mean EQ-5D index and VAS scores were 0.34 and 56.1%. Comparison between the 3 outcome groups revealed significant difference only in the EQ-5D (p=0.003). Only baseline CRPS predicted a worse outcome (chi(2)=0.006).Our findings revealed that the prognosis of this syndrome is poor, with improvement in less than 25% of patients, major remission in only 6% and continued worsening in a third. A high rate of neuropsychiatric findings was noted and new neuropsychiatric features had occurred in some. Average health status was poor. Of the baseline parameters, only CRPS predicted poorer outcome.To compare long-term outcomes of total hip replacement (THR) in patients with or without contamination of the femoral head.After a mean period of 12 (range, 8-17) years, 104 female and 71 male THR patients aged 47 to 96 (mean, 77) years were reassessed via a self-administered questionnaire, and 25 other THR patients were reassessed by review of case notes. The questionnaires comprised the 12-item Oxford hip score and the European Quality Of Life (EuroQOL). 87 and 88 patients had positive and negative cultures in the donated femoral heads, respectively. The 2 groups were compared with respect to the Oxford hip score, the EuroQOL, and rates of complication and revision surgery.Long-term outcomes of THR patients with or without femoral head contamination were not significantly different. Respectively, the mean Oxford hip scores were 36 and 39 (p=0.4); 16 and 14 patients had the maximum score of 48; 2 and 3 patients scored <10 (mostly owing to aseptic loosening). The respective mean visual analogue scale score of the EuroQOL were 65 and 73 (p=0.07); only the dimension of self care was significantly different between groups (p=0.04). Respectively, 14 and 12 patients had complications (16% vs. 15%, χ²=0.05, p=0.8), whereas 11 and 5 patients had revision surgery (13% vs. 6%, χ²=2.2, p>0.1).Microbiological screening of donated femoral heads plays no role in predicting long-term failure of THR in the donors.The purpose of this study was to examine the prevalence of screening-detected depression and the association of depression with QoL in community-dwelling postmenopausal women living in three Asian countries. We examined self-reported questionnaires and conducted the study. A total of 698 community-dwelling postmenopausal women living in three Asian countries participated in this study. The mean age was 59.4±6.6 years (±SD) Depressive symptoms were assessed using a 15-item geriatric depression scale (GDS-15). Using the cut-off of 5/6 for the GDS-15, the percentages of subjects with depression were 39.0% of the Korean subjects, 29.2% of the Chinese subjects, and 33.9% of the Japanese subjects. For the assessment of QoL, we used the EQ-5D of the EuroQoL Group. The following five dimensions were assessed: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. The proportions of subjects reporting problems for each dimension were examined. Subjects with depression had significantly lower levels of some dimensions of QoL than those without depression in all three countries. In all three countries, 29.2-39.0% of community-dwelling postmenopausal women had screening-detected depression, which was significantly associated with a lower level of some dimensions of QoL. These results suggest that clinicians should pay more attention to depression in community-dwelling postmenopausal women.Previous research has suggested people with impaired fasting glucose (IFG) are less likely to develop Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) if they receive prolonged structured diet and exercise advice. This study examined the within-trial cost-effectiveness of such lifestyle interventions.Screen-detected participants with either newly diagnosed T2DM or IFG were randomized 2:1 to intervention versus control (usual care) between February and December 2009, in Norfolk (UK). The intervention consisted of group based education, physiotherapy and peer support sessions, plus telephone contacts from T2DM volunteers. We monitored healthcare resource use, intervention costs, and quality of life (EQ-5D). The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gain (incremental cost effectiveness ratio [ICER]), and cost effectiveness acceptability curves (CEAC) were estimated.In total, 177 participants were recruited (118 intervention, 59 controls), with a mean follow-up of 7 months. Excluding screening and recruitment costs, the mean cost was estimated to be £551 per participant in the intervention arm, compared with £325 in the control arm. The QALY gains were -0.001 and -0.004, respectively. The intervention was estimated to have an ICER of £67,184 per QALY (16 percent probability of being cost-effective at the £20,000/QALY threshold). Cost-effectiveness estimates were more favorable for IFG participants and those with longer follow-up (≥ 4 months) (ICERs of £20,620 and £17,075 per QALY, respectively).Group sessions to prevent T2DM were not estimated to be within current limits of cost-effectiveness. However, there was a large degree of uncertainty surrounding these estimates, suggesting the need for further research.To observe and compare back pain and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in postmenopausal women with a prior unsatisfactory response to antiresorptive therapy, treated with teriparatide (TPTD) or alternative treatments in normal clinical practice.Prospective, observational, multicentre, 24-month study of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. A back pain and HRQoL questionnaire (European Quality of Life Questionnaire, EQ-5D) including visual analogue scale (VAS) was completed at each visit.A total of 153 patients were enrolled, 105 patients started TPTD treatment during the study (TPTD cohort) and 48 patients did not take TPTD treatment at any time during the study (non-TPTD cohort). Four patients did not meet the inclusion criteria for the study. Of the patients in the non-TPTD cohort, 31 (68.9%) took antiresorptives during the study. The patients selected by the investigator for teriparatide treatment were distinctly different from those not selected. At baseline, the mean back pain VAS was greater in the TPTD than the non-TPTD cohort, 64  mm and 42 mm, respectively (p < 0.001). During the study, compared with baseline, the mean back pain VAS decreased in the TPTD cohort at all visits (p < 0.001). In the non-TPTD cohort, a transitory decrease in the mean after 12 months was observed (-10 mm, p = 0.023) only. After 24 months, the mean back pain VAS improved in the TPTD cohort (-36 mm, p < 0.001) while no change was observed in the non-TPTD cohort (-4 mm, p = 0.467). At baseline, the mean EQ-VAS was lower in the TPTD than in the non-TPTD cohort, 40.8 and 55.2, respectively (p < 0.001). After 24 months, EQ-VAS improved in both cohorts (TPTD 34, p < 0.001 and non-TPTD 9, p = 0.026).TPTD-treated patients had more back pain and lower HRQoL at baseline. In the TPTD cohort the mean value was consistently and significantly improved in back pain and quality of life. In the non-TPTD cohort, the mean improvement in back pain and QoL was inconsistent possibly due to the initially higher QoL and lower back pain leaving less room for improvement. These results should be interpreted in the context of limitations related to a non-randomised observational study.The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy, side effects and drop out rate of extra-corporeal magnetic energy stimulation of pelvic floor muscles for urodynamic stress incontinence of urine in women. It was a prospective non-controlled study at 2 district general hospitals in South Wales. It included 48 female patients with urodynamic stress incontinence of urine, who had 16, twice weekly treatment sessions. Pad test was the primary outcome measure and continence diary, King's Health and EuroQol quality of life questionnaires, side effects and drop out were the secondary outcome measures. Assessment was made on recruitment, at the end of treatment sessions and at 3 months follow up. Thirty one patients completed treatment sessions and 27 attended for follow up at 3 months. There was no significant change in outcome measures at the end of treatment or at 3 months follow up. Side effects were encountered by 52.1% of patients and the drop out rate was 35.4%.We examined whether health-related quality of life (HRQoL) predicts long-term survival in patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD) independent of established prognostic risk factors. In 2004, data on 711 consecutive patients with PAD undergoing vascular surgery were collected from 11 hospitals in The Netherlands. After 1 year, patients were contacted to complete the EuroQol Questionnaire (EQ-5D), of which 503 complied. HRQoL assessed by the EQ-5D was divided into tertiles (i.e. poor, intermediate and good HRQoL). Mortality was subsequently assessed 3 years after surgery. Of the 503 patients, 55 (11%) patients died during follow-up. Mortality was 21% in patients with poor HRQoL, 8% in patients with intermediate HRQoL, and 5% in patients with good HRQoL. Patients with poor HRQoL (HR = 5.4; 95% CI 2.3-12.5) had a worse survival compared to patients with a good HRQoL, after adjusting for established prognostic factors. In conclusion, the study indicates that poor HRQoL predicts long-term survival in patients with PAD, and provides prognostic value above established risk factors.The aim of this study was to examine the effects of raloxifene compared with those of placebo on verbal memory, mental processing speed, depression, anxiety, and quality of life.A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 213 healthy women 70 years or older was conducted between July 2003 and January 2008 at the University Medical Centre Utrecht, the Netherlands. Participants were randomly assigned to receive raloxifene (60 mg) or placebo daily for 12 months. Measurements were taken at baseline and after 3, 6, and 12 months. The change in scores from baseline was calculated. The main outcome measures were direct and delayed verbal memory (Groningen 15 Words test), mental processing speed (Trails B test), mood/depression (Geriatric Depression Scale), anxiety (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory 1 and 2), and quality of life (Women's Health Questionnaire and EuroQol-5 dimensional questionnaire).Direct verbal memory improved significantly with raloxifene compared with placebo: the women receiving raloxifene repeated more words in the words A + B test than did the women receiving placebo (P = 0.025). At 12 months, the change from baseline was 16 words in the raloxifene group and 10 words in the placebo group. In the words A test, direct repetition was also significantly better among women receiving raloxifene than among women receiving placebo (P = 0.023), with the change from baseline in the number of words repeated being nine words in the raloxifene group and six words in the placebo group at 12 months.In postmenopausal women, raloxifene gave significantly improved verbal memory when compared with placebo.To describe fracture rates, back pain, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and prior bisphosphonate therapy, treated with teriparatide for up to 18 months and followed up for a further 18 months.Prospective, multinational, and observational study.Data on prior bisphosphonate use, clinical fractures, back pain visual analog scale (VAS), and HRQoL (EQ-5D) were collected over 36 months. Fracture data were summarized in 6-month intervals and analyzed using logistic regression with repeated measures. Changes from baseline in back pain VAS and EQ-VAS were analyzed using a repeated measures model.Of the 1581 enrolled patients with follow-up data, 1161 (73.4%) had a history of prior bisphosphonate use (median duration: 36 months). Of them, 169 (14.6%) sustained ≥1 fracture during 36-month follow-up. Adjusted odds of fracture were significantly decreased at each 6-month interval compared with the first 6 months of teriparatide treatment: 37% decrease in the 12 to <18 months period during teriparatide treatment (P=0.03) and a 76% decrease in the 12- to 18-month period after teriparatide was discontinued (P<0.001). Significant reductions in back pain and improvement in HRQoL were observed.Postmenopausal women with severe osteoporosis previously treated with bisphosphonates had a significant reduction in the incidence of fractures compared with the first 6 months of therapy, a reduction in back pain and an improvement in HRQoL during up to 18 months of teriparatide treatment. These outcomes were still evident for at least 18 months after teriparatide was discontinued. The results should be interpreted in the context of an uncontrolled, observational study in a routine clinical setting.To assess safety, risk factors and clinical outcomes in elderly patients with spinal stenosis after decompressive laminectomy.A prospective cohort of patients 70 years and older with spinal stenosis undergoing conventional laminectomy without fusion (n = 101) were consecutively enrolled from regular clinical practice and reassessed at 3 and 12 months. Primary outcome was change in health related quality of life measured (HRQL) with EuroQol-5 D (EQ-5D). Secondary outcomes were safety assessment, changes in Oswestry disability index (ODI), Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-VAS) score for self reported health, VAS score for leg and back pain and patient satisfaction. We used regression analyses to evaluate risk factors for less improvement.The mean EQ-5 D total score were 0.32, 0.63 and 0.60 at baseline, 3 months and 12 months respectively, and represents a statistically significant (P < 0.001) improvement. Effect size was > 0.8. Mean ODI score at baseline was 44.2, at 3 months 25.6 and at 27.9. This represents an improvement for all post-operative scores. A total of 18 (18.0%) complications were registered with 6 (6.0%) classified as major, including one perioperative death. Patients stating that the surgery had been beneficial at 3 months was 82 (89.1%) and at 12 months 73 (86.9%). The only predictor found was patients with longer duration of leg pain had less improvement in ODI (P < 0.001). Increased age or having complications did not predict a worse outcome in any of the outcome variables.Properly selected patients of 70 years and older can expect a clinical meaningful improvement of HRQL, functional status and pain after open laminectomy without fusion. The treatment seems to be safe. However, patients with longstanding leg-pain prior to operation are less likely to improve one year after surgery.Outcome following brain tumor operations is often assessed by health professionals using various gross function scales. However, surprisingly little is known about how modern glioma surgery affects quality of life (QOL) as reported by the patients themselves. In the present study the authors aimed to assess changes in QOL after glioma surgery, to explore the relationship between QOL and traditional outcome parameters, and to examine possible predictors of change in QOL.Eighty-eight patients with glioma were recruited from among those 16 years or older who had been admitted to the authors' department for brain tumor surgery in the period between January 2007 and December 2009. A 3D ultrasonography-based navigation system was utilized in nearly all operations and functional MR imaging data on eloquent lesions were incorporated into the neuronavigation system. Preoperative scores for QOL (EuroQol 5D [EQ-5D]) and functional status (Karnofsky Performance Scale [KPS]) were obtained. The EQ-5D and KPS scores were subsequently recorded 6 weeks postoperatively, as were responses to a structured interview about new deficits and possible complications.There was no change in the median EQ-5D indexes following surgery, 0.76 versus 0.75 (p = 0.419). The EQ-5D index value was significantly correlated with the KPS score (p < 0.001; rho = 0.769). The EQ-5D index values and KPS scores improved in 35.2% and 24.1% of cases, were equal in 20.5% and 47.2% of cases, and deteriorated in 44.3% and 28.7%, respectively. Thus, both improvement and deterioration were underestimated by the KPS score as compared with the patient-reported QOL assessment. New motor deficits (p = 0.003), new language deficits (p = 0.035), new unsteadiness and/or ataxia (p = 0.001), occipital lesions (p = 0.019), and no use of ultrasonography for resection control (p = 0.021) were independent predictors of worsening QOL in a multivariate model.The surgical procedures per se may not significantly alter QOL in the average patient with glioma; however, new deficits have a major undesirable effect on QOL. It seems that the active use of intraoperative ultrasonography may be associated with a preservation of QOL. The EQ-5D seems like a good outcome measure with a strong correlation to traditional variables while offering a more detailed description of outcome.This two-stage randomised controlled trial, comparing total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH) with total abdominal hysterectomy (TAH) for stage I endometrial cancer (LACE), began in 2005. The primary objective of stage 1 was to assess whether TLH results in equivalent or improved quality of life (QoL) up to 6 months after surgery compared with TAH. The primary objective of stage 2 was to test the hypothesis that disease-free survival at 4.5 years is equivalent for TLH and TAH. Here, we present the results of stage 1.Between Oct 7, 2005, and April 16, 2008, 361 participants were enrolled in the QoL substudy at 19 centres across Australia, New Zealand, and Hong Kong; 332 completed the QoL analysis. Randomisation was done centrally and independently from other study procedures via a computer-generated, web-based system (providing concealment of the next assigned treatment), using stratified permuted blocks of three and six patients. Patients with histologically confirmed stage I endometrioid adenocarcinoma and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status less than 2 were randomly assigned to TLH (n=190) or TAH (n=142), stratified by histological grade and study centre. Patients and study personnel were not masked to treatment assignment. QoL was measured at baseline, 1 and 4 weeks (early), and 3 and 6 months (late) after surgery, using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) questionnaire. The primary endpoint was the difference between groups in QoL change from baseline at early and late timepoints (a 5% difference was considered clinically significant). Analysis was done according to the intention-to-treat principle. Patients for both stages of the trial have now been recruited and are being followed up for disease-specific outcomes. The LACE trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00096408.Eight of 332 patients (2.4%) had treatment conversion-seven from TLH to TAH and one from TAH to TLH (patient preference). In the early phase of recovery, patients who had TLH reported significantly greater improvement in QoL from baseline compared with those who had TAH, in all subscales apart from emotional and social wellbeing. Improvements in QoL up to 6 months after surgery continued to favour TLH, except in the emotional and social wellbeing measures of FACT and the visual analogue scale of the EuroQoL five dimensions (EuroQoL-VAS). Operating time was significantly longer in the TLH group (138 min [SD 43]) than in the TAH group (109 min [34]; p=0.001). Although the proportion of intraoperative adverse events was similar between groups (TAH eight of 142 [5.6%] vs TLH 14 of 190 [7.4%]; p=0.53); postoperatively, twice as many patients in the TAH group experienced adverse events of grade 3 or higher (33 of 142 [23.2%] vs 22 of 190 [11.6%] in the TLH group; p=0.004). Postoperative serious adverse events occurred more in the TAH group (27 of 142 [19.0%]) than in the TLH group (16 of 190 [7.9%]; p=0.002).QoL improvements from baseline during early and later phases of recovery, and the adverse event profile, favour TLH compared with TAH for treatment of stage I endometrial cancer.Cancer Council Queensland, Cancer Council New South Wales, Cancer Council Victoria, Cancer Council Western Australia; NHMRC project grant 456110; Cancer Australia project grant 631523; The Women and Infants Research Foundation, Western Australia; Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital Foundation; Wesley Research Institute; Gallipoli Research Foundation; Gynetech; TYCO Healthcare, Australia; Johnson and Johnson Medical, Australia; Hunter New England Centre for Gynaecological Cancer; Genesis Oncology Trust; and Smart Health Research Grant QLD Health.  The EQ-5D is a generic preference-based health status measure that has been widely applied to measure the impact of Type 2 diabetes mellitus. This review summarizes evidence on the validity, reliability and responsiveness of the EQ-5D in studies of Type 2 diabetes and provides a catalogue of EQ-5D index scores for Type 2 diabetes and various complications and subgroups.  A structured search was conducted (1987-2009) using keywords relevant to Type 2 diabetes and the EQ-5D. Original research studies in Type 2 diabetes that reported EQ-5D results and/or measurement properties were included.  Of the 59 included articles, 54 publications reported EQ-5D responses and 39 papers presented evidence on the measurement properties of the EQ-5D. Studies that reported measurement properties supported construct, convergent and discriminant validity, test-retest reliability and responsiveness of the EQ-5D in Type 2 diabetes. Several studies reported a ceiling effect for the EQ-5D and an inability to capture multiple complications was observed. EQ-5D index scores ranged from 0.20 (severe diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain) to 0.88 (general population: good HbA(1c) level). For six subgroups, sufficient studies were available to calculate pooled mean index scores (95% CI): general population 0.67 (0.59-0.75), no complications 0.76 (0.68-0.83), microvascular complications 0.73 (0.57-0.89), macrovascular complications 0.73 (0.57-0.88), diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain 0.45 (0.39-0.51) and retinopathy 0.57 (0.46-0.69).  Evidence supported validity, reliability and responsiveness of the EQ-5D in Type 2 diabetes. EQ-5D index scores associated with Type 2 diabetes and various complications can be useful for modelling health outcomes in economic evaluations of health programmes for Type 2 diabetes.Population data on mortality and life expectancy are generally available for most countries. However, no longitudinal data based on the health-related quality of life outcome from the EQ-5D instrument have been reported for orthopedic patients. We assessed the effect of orthopedic surgery as measured by EQ-5D.We analyzed EQ-5D data from 2,444 patients who were operated at the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at Karolinska University Hospital, 2001-2005. We also made a comparison between results from this cohort and those from a Swedish EQ-5D population survey.The mean EQ-5D (index) score improved from 0.54 to 0.72. Hip and knee arthroplasty, operations related to previous surgery, trauma-related procedures, and rheumatoid arthritis surgeries had preoperative EQ-5D (index) scores of 0.48 to 0.52. All of these groups showed substantial improvement in scores (0.63 to 0.80). Patients with tumors or diseases of the elbow/hand showed higher preoperative scores (0.66 to 0.77), which were similar postoperatively. In most patients, the EQ-5D (index) score improved but did not reach the level reported for an age- and sex-matched population sample (mean difference = 0.11).Our results can be used as part of the preoperative patient information to increase the level of patient awareness and cooperation, and to facilitate rehabilitation. In future it will be possible-but not easy-to use the EQ-5D instrument as a complementary consideration in clinical priority assessment.The aim of this study was to measure health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in Iranian people with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus using two different measures and examines which socio-demographic and diabetes-related characteristics are associated with better quality of life based on a nationally distributed sample.A multi-stage cluster sampling method was used to select 3472 subjects as a part of Iranian surveillance of risk factors of non-communicable disease (ISRFNCD). EuroQol-5 Dimensions questionnaire (EQ-5D) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) were employed to measure HRQoL. Binary logistic and Tobit regression models were used to investigate factors associated with EQ-5D results.The mean age of subjects was 59.4 years (SD = 11.7), 61.3% were female and had 8.08 years (SD = 6.7) known duration of diabetes. The patients reported "some or extreme problems" most frequently in Pain/Discomfort (69.3%) and Anxiety/Depression (56.6%) dimensions of EQ-5D. The mean EQ-5D and VAS score were 0.70 (95% CI 0.69-0.71) and 56.8 (95% CI 56.15-57.5) respectively. Female gender, lower education, unemployment, long duration of diabetes, diabetes-related hospitalization in past years and having nephropathy and lower extremity lesions were associated with higher probabilities of reporting "some or extreme problems" in most dimensions of EQ-5D in binary logistic regression models. The same factors in addition to retinopathy were significantly associated with lower levels of HRQoL in Tobit regression analysis too.The study findings indicate that patients with diabetes in Iran suffer from relatively poor HRQoL. Therefore much more attention should be paid to main determinants of HRQoL to identify and implement appropriate policies for achieving better management of diabetes and ultimately improving the quality of life of diabetic patients in this region.There has been some debate in the past as to who should determine values for different health states for economic evaluation. The aim of this study was to compare the Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) in children attending open schools (OS) and children with disabilities attending a special school (SS) and their parents in Cape Town South Africa.The EQ-5D-Y and a proxy version were administered to the children and their parents were requested to fill in the EQ-5D-Y proxy version without consultation with their children on the same day.A response rate of over 20% resulted in 567 sets of child/adult responses from OS children and 61 responses from SS children. Children with special needs reported more problems in the "Mobility" and "Looking after myself" domains but their scores with regard to "Doing usual activities", "Pain or discomfort" and "Worried, sad or unhappy" were similar to their typically developing counterparts. The mean Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) score of SS children was (88.4, SD18.3, range 40-100) which was not different to the mean score of the OS respondents (87.9, SD16.5, range 5-100).The association between adult and child scores was fair to moderate in the domains. The correlations in VAS scores between Open Schools children and female care-givers' scores significant but low (r = .33, p < .001) and insignificant between Special School children and adult (r = .16, p = .24).It would appear that children with disabilities do not perceive their HRQoL to be worse than their able bodied counterparts, although they do recognise their limitations in the domains of "Mobility" and "Doing usual activities".This finding lends weight to the argument that valuation of health states by children affected by these health states should not be included for the purpose of economic analysis as the child's resilience might result in better values for health states and possibly a correspondingly smaller resource allocation. Conversely, if HRQoL is to be used as a clinical outcome, then it is preferable to include the children's values as proxy report does not appear to be highly correlated with the child's own perceptions.The aim of this study was to perform a cost-utility analysis of total hip (THR) and knee replacement (TKR). Arthritis is a disabling condition that leads to long-term deterioration in quality of life. Total joint replacement, despite being one of the greatest advances in medicine of the modern era, has recently come under scrutiny. The National Health Service (NHS) has competing demands, and resource allocation is challenging in times of economic restraint. Patients who underwent THR (n = 348) or TKR (n = 323) between January and July 2010 in one Scottish region were entered into a prospective arthroplasty database. A health-utility score was derived from the EuroQol (EQ-5D) score pre-operatively and at one year, and was combined with individual life expectancy to derive the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. Two-way analysis of variance was used to compare QALYs gained between procedures, while controlling for baseline differences. The number of QALYs gained was higher after THR than after TKR (6.5 vs 4.0 years, p < 0.001). The cost per QALY for THR was £1372 compared with £2101 for TKR. The predictors of an increase in QALYs gained were poorer health before surgery (p < 0.001) and younger age (p < 0.001). General health (EQ-5D VAS) showed greater improvement after THR than after TKR (p < 0.001). This study provides up-to-date cost-effectiveness data for total joint replacement. THR and TKR are extremely effective both clinically and in terms of cost effectiveness, with costs that compare favourably to those of other medical interventions.Responses to single-item categorical self-rated health (SRH) measures predict mortality, but performance of quality-adjusted life year (QALY) compatible health measures in this regard has not been much investigated.To examine mortality prediction and discrimination by 4 QALY compatible health measures, a reference single-item categorical SRH measure, and 1-year declines in those measures.Cox survival and area under the curve (AUC) (discrimination) analyses of the 2000 to 2002 Medical Expenditures Panel Survey respondent data linked to the National Death Index through 2006, with and without adjustment for sociodemographic characteristics (age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, and income).A total of 22,259 respondents aged 18 to 90.EQ-5D summary index (EQ-5D); predicted EQ-5D (pEQ-5D) derived from the SF-12; SF-6D; EQ visual analog scale (EQ VAS); and a single-item categorical SRH measure.Adjusted mortality hazard ratios for 0.1 point decrements in QALY compatible health measure scores were: EQ-5D, 1.24 [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.20, 1.29); pEQ-5D, 1.40 (95% CI: 1.34, 1.47); EQ VAS, 1.30 (95% CI: 1.26, 1.35); SF-6D, 1.37 (95% CI: 1.30, 1.43)]. In adjusted AUC analyses, baseline scores on all study health measures discriminated mortality risk, but the pEQ-5D, EQ VAS, and single-item categorical SRH measures were statistically superior in this regard. One-year declines also predicted mortality for all study health measures, but only pEQ-5D decline discriminated mortality risk in adjusted AUC analyses.For all of the study health measures, baseline scores and 1-year declines in scores predicted mortality. The pEQ-5D also consistently discriminated mortality risk in adjusted AUC analyses.Depression imposes a substantial burden on society. In view of the economic burden of depression, studies evaluating depression treatment increasingly incorporate a cost-utility analysis. Outcomes of these analyses are used by decision makers to prioritize healthcare. Although generic preference-based instruments have been recommended for measuring utility, depression research often uses a disease-specific method, based on depression-free days (DFD), to measure utilities.The objective of this study was to compare utility measurement techniques in the context of a randomized controlled trial. In particular, we studied the agreement between QALYs measured with the EuroQol (EQ-5D), the Short Form 6D (SF-6D), and the DFD method, using the EQ-5D as the reference method. We also studied whether the use of different techniques leads to different conclusions for decision makers.Data were derived from the Depression in Elderly with Long-Term Afflictions (DELTA) study. This randomized controlled trial was designed to study the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a minimal psychological intervention for chronically ill patients with co-occurring minor or mild to moderate major depression. The EQ-5D, SF-6D and Beck Depression Inventory (to estimate DFDs) were assessed at baseline, and at three, six and twelve months after baseline.Poor agreement was found between the EQ-5D and DFD (Kendall's Tau: 0.33; ICC: 0.21 (95% CI:-0.07-0.45)) and moderate agreement between the EQ-5D and SF-6D (Kendall's Tau: 0.60; ICC: 0.47 (95% CI: 0.36-0.57)). The incremental cost-utility ratio led to similar conclusions for decision makers across techniques.In conclusion, utilities from the disease-specific DFD method should not be compared directly with utilities derived from the EQ-5D. Although a disease-specific method might yield similar cost-utility ratios as generic instruments, generic instruments remain the preferred option for prioritizing healthcare. Limitations of this study include the presence of minor depression and chronic illnesses in our study population.Generic instruments remain preferred for cost-utility analyses, especially when results are used to prioritize healthcare. If the DFD method is a way forward, further research is required to validate utility weights assigned to the DFDs.To assess and compare alternative approaches of measuring preference-based health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in treatment-experienced HIV patients and evaluate their association with health status and clinical variables.Cross-sectional study.Twenty-eight Veterans Affairs hospitals in the United States, 13 hospitals in Canada, and 8 hospitals in the United Kingdom.Three hundred sixty-eight treatment-experienced HIV-infected patients enrolled in the Options in Management with Antiretrovirals randomized trial.Baseline sociodemographic and clinical indicators and baseline HRQoL using the Medical Outcome Study HIV Health Survey (MOS-HIV), the EQ-5D, the EQ-5D visual analog scale (EQ-5D VAS), the Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3), and standard gamble (SG) and time trade-off (TTO) techniques.The mean (SD) baseline HRQoL scores were as follows: MOS-HIV physical health summary score 41.70 (11.16), MOS-HIV mental health summary score 44.76 (11.38), EQ-5D 0.77 (0.19), HUI3 0.59 (0.32), EQ-5D VAS 65.94 (21.71), SG 0.75 (0.29), and TTO 0.80 (0.31). Correlations between MOS-HIV summary scores and EQ-5D, EQ-5D VAS, and HUI3 ranged from 0.60 to 0.70; the correlation between EQ-5D and HUI3 was 0.73; and the correlation between SG and TTO was 0.43. Preference-based HRQoL scores were related to physical, mental, social, and overall health as measured by MOS-HIV. Concomitant medication use, CD4 cell count, and HIV viral load were related to some instruments' scores.On average, preference-based HRQoL for treatment-experienced HIV patients was decreased relative to national norms but also highly variable. Health status and clinical variables were related to HRQoL.The aim of the study was to evaluate the responsiveness of the Short Form Health Survey, the EuroQol 5 Dimension questionnaire, and the Charing Cross Venous Ulcer Questionnaire (CXVUQ) to venous ulcer healing. Participants had health-related quality of life measured at baseline and 12 weeks. Standardized response means were calculated to assess the responsiveness of the instruments to change in an ulcer state (healed vs. unhealed). Three hundred and sixty-eight participants completed the questionnaires at baseline and 360 at 12 weeks. One hundred and ninety-three participants (54%) had healed at 12 weeks. The standardized response means ranged from -0.01 to 0.47 for Short Form Health Survey, 0.10-0.31 for EuroQol 5 Dimension questionnaire, and -0.21 to -0.92 for CXVUQ. Differences between healed and unhealed participants at 12 weeks were significantly different for three of the eight domains on Short Form Health Survey and on all domains for the CXVUQ. There were no significant differences between the groups on the EuroQol 5 Dimension questionnaire scales. CXVUQ was more responsive than the generic instruments to change in ulcer status over 12 weeks for measuring health-related quality of life of patients with venous ulceration.To compare societal values across three health-state classification systems in older African Americans with depression and to describe the association of these instruments to depression severity.We summarized baseline values for EQ-5D (US weights) and HUI2/3 (Canadian weights) and their subscales for 118 older African American participants enrolled in a randomized depression treatment trial and calculated correlations between the different instruments. We evaluated ceiling and floor effects for each instrument by comparing the proportion at the highest and lowest possible score for each tool. Also, utility scores were assessed by level of depression severity (mild, moderate, moderate severe, severe) scores as measured by the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9).Mean utility values were 0.58 (SD = 0.21) for EQ-5D, 0.52 (SD = 0.21) for HUI2, and 0.36 (SD = 0.31) for HUI3. For the EQ-5D, 72 % of participants reported having some problems on the anxiety/depression domain. On the emotion domain for the HUI2, 23 % reported the highest level of impairment compared to only 3 % on the HUI3. No participant scored at the floor for the EQ-5D, HUI2, or HUI3 index; one participant scored at the ceiling value on the HUI3 index. Correlations ranged from 0.63 to 0.82 (all of which were significant at an alpha level of 0.05). In general, utility scores trended inversely with depression level.Small differences in the three preference-weighted health-state classification systems were evident for this sample of older African Americans with depressive symptoms, with HUI scores lower than EQ-5D. For this sample, utility scores were lower (i.e., poorer) than the general United States population with depression on each utility measure.Shoulder arthroplasty surgery has undergone remarkable progress. New concepts like reverse and stemless shoulder prostheses have been widely used. The Total Evolutive Shoulder System (TESS) is a new innovative system that provides the surgeon with different prosthetic versions. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate our short-term results and complications of the TESS.56 consecutive patients were operated with one of the two versions of TESS (anatomical or reverse) between October 2007 and December 2009. Preoperative and postoperative evaluation of the function and life quality was achieved by the Quick Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) index and EQ-5D self-report questionnaire, respectively. Radiographic follow-up by anteroposterior, axillary and lateral views was done. The anterosuperior approach was used in all cases. We compared the outcome in fracture patients with other categories.49 patients were available for 9-24 months (mean 14) clinical and radiographic postoperative follow-up. The mean of quick DASH improved from 56 preoperatively to 34 postoperatively (p < 0.001) and EQ-5D from 0.36 preoperatively to 0.73 postoperatively (p < 0.001). The complications were few and we had no radiolucencies or scapular notching during the study period. Fracture patients did worse compared to other categories.TESS prosthesis showed promising short-term results with few complications. The reverse version could be implanted without stem if initial stability was adequate. Long-term follow-up is required to confirm the results of this innovative system in the long run.To evaluate the construct validity of the Turkish version of the EQ-5D in patients with acute coronary syndrome.The study was conducted as a cross-sectional study at the Trakya University Hospital between February and May 2008. All patients completed the Turkish version of the EQ-5D and MacNew heart-related quality of life scale. Construct validity of the EQ-5D was assessed according to relationships with MacNew subscales by using Spearman rank correlation and multiple linear regression analyses.One hundred and twenty-two patients responded to the instruments. Mean age was 62.9±9.3 years and male gender (88 or 72.1%) was dominant. Mean score of the EQ-5D index was 0.79±0.32, while the global score of MacNew was 5.01±1.16. The correlation coefficients of the EQ-5D index score with the MacNew subscales ranged from 0.557 to 0.721, with EQ-5D VAS score ranging from 0.297 to 0.484 (p<0.001 for all of them). According to the stepwise regression model MacNew global score was found to be significantly effective factor on EQ-5D index score (β =0.188; 95% CI: 0.152-0.224; p<0.001).The Turkish version of the EQ-5D-based utility score seems to be a valid instrument in the assessment of quality of life studies in patients with acute coronary syndrome.The aim of this study was to compare the quality of life after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) and surgical replacement (SAVR) at one year.The study included 45 consecutive high-risk patients (average age 82.0 years; logistic Euroscore 22.3%) with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis allocated to TAVI transfemoral, TAVI transapical using the Edwards-Sapien valve or SAVR with the Edwards Perimount bioprosthesis (n=15 in each). The pre-operative characteristics were similar except for more myocardial infarctions in TAVI. The quality of life was assessed using the standardized EQ-5D questionnaire at baseline and on days 30, 90 and 360. The protocol was approved by the local ethics committee and an informed consent was signed. A total of 7 patients (15.5%) died during follow-up.At baseline no significant differences in any of the quality-of-life parameters were found except for usual activities described as "best" (46.7% in SAVR vs. 10.0% in TAVI; P=0.002). At 30 and 90 days surviving patients were similar and at 360 days only the anxiety/depression score was "best" in 83.3% SAVR vs. 59.1% (P=0.046). Functional status improved in all patients (NYHA class I-II in 13.3% at baseline vs. 78.9% at 360-days) and the general health median significantly improved in TAVI patients (from 50 to 67; P=0.001) with a positive trend in SAVR patients (P=0.060).At one year, the general quality of life of high-risk patients had significantly improved after transcatheter aortic valve implantation with a positive trend in surgically treated patients.Shoulder problems are a common complaint of the musculoskeletal system. Physical therapists treat these patients with different modalities such as exercise, massage, and shoulder taping. Although different techniques have been described, the effectiveness of taping has not yet been established. The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of usual physical therapy care in combination with a particular tape technique for subacromial impingement syndrome of the shoulder compared to usual physical therapy care without this tape technique in a primary healthcare setting.An economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled trial will be conducted. A sample of 140 patients between 18 and 65 years of age with a diagnosis of subacromial impingement syndrome (SAIS) as assessed by physical therapists will be recruited. Eligible patients will be randomized to either the intervention group (usual care in combination with the particular tape technique) or the control group (usual care without this tape technique). In both groups, usual care will consist of individualized physical therapy care. The primary outcomes will be shoulder-specific function (the Simple Shoulder Test) and pain severity (11-point numerical rating scale). The economic evaluation will be performed using a societal perspective. All relevant costs will be registered using cost diaries. Utilities (Quality Adjusted Life Years) will be measured using the EuroQol. The data will be collected at baseline, and 4, 12, and 26 weeks follow-up.This pragmatic study will provide information about the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of taping in patients presenting with clinical signs of SAIS.NTR2575.The aim of the Saga Challenge Antihypertensive Study (S-CATS), a single-arm, prospective and multi-center trial, was to evaluate the effectiveness of combined antihypertensive treatment with losartan and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). Enrolled in the study were a total of 161 patients with hypertension, who in spite of treatment with an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) alone or an ARB and calcium channel blocker (CCB), had not been able to reach blood pressure control goals set by the Japanese Society of Hypertension Guidelines (JSH 2004). The ARBs were replaced with a combination pill containing losartan (50 mg) and HCTZ (12.5 mg), and this treatment was continued for 3 months. This change in therapy resulted in significant decreases in systolic (158±14 to 137±15 mm Hg, P<0.001) and diastolic (85±11 to 76±10 mm Hg, P<0.001) blood pressure and heart rate (73±3 to 72±3) during the study. The patients' quality of life (QOL) score, the EuroQol 5 dimensions (EQ-5D) and the visual analog scale (VAS) (n=96; 70.0 (68.8-80.0) to 80.0 (70.0-90.0), P<0.01) all improved significantly. Another QOL score, the hypertension symptom score (HSS), which we originally developed for the S-CATS trial, decreased significantly (n=93; 4.0 (1.0-9.0) to 2.0 (1.0-8.0), P<0.05). The Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI), which is a psychometric assessment of subjective sleep quality, also decreased significantly (n=45; 4.0 (2.0-7.0) to 3.0 (2.0-5.0), P<0.05). There was a significant correlation between a change in HSS (baseline value -3-months value) and a decrease in systolic blood pressure (n=93; R=0.241, P<0.05). These results suggest that an anti-hypertensive treatment combined with an ARB and a thiazide diuretic may improve patients' QOL, including sleep quality.The main purpose of this study is to provide a national catalog of preference-based utility weights associated with major chronic diseases in Korea.The 2005 Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey was used to get EQ-5D scores for 27 major chronic diseases. The independent detrimental effect of each chronic disease was estimated using a censored least absolute deviations regression.The respondents (60.5%) rated their health as perfect or 11111 on the EQ-5D scale showing ceiling effect. Stroke (0.5067 approximately 0.5756) was the condition of the lowest EQ-5D utility weight and was followed by renal failure (0.6637 approximately 0.7739), angina pectoris (0.7325 approximately 0.8364), and arthritis (0.7621 approximately 0.8644). The marginal impact of each chronic disease after adjusting for age, sex, education, income, marital status, and the number of comorbid conditions was largest in stroke, arthritis, cancer, renal failure, and herniated disc.This study provided a nationally representative catalog of utility weights for major chronic diseases in Korea. The three most burdensome chronic diseases among Korean adults based on the regression analysis were stroke, arthritis, and cancer.Pompe disease is an orphan disease for which enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) recently became available. This study aims to estimate all relevant aspects of burden of illness--societal costs, use of home care and informal care, productivity losses, and losses in health-related quality of life (HRQoL)--for adult Pompe patients only receiving supportive care.We collected data on all relevant aspects of burden of illness via a questionnaire. We applied a societal perspective in calculating costs. The EQ-5D was used to estimate HRQoL.Eighty adult patients (87% of the total Dutch adult Pompe population) completed a questionnaire. Disease severity ranged from mild to severe. Total annual costs were estimated at <euro>22,475 (range <euro>0-169,539) per adult Pompe patient. Patients on average received 8 h of home care and 19 h of informal care per week. Eighty-five percent of the patients received informal care from one or more caregivers; 40% had stopped working due to their disease; another 20% had reduced their working hours. HRQoL for Pompe patients who only received supportive care was estimated at 0.72, 17% lower than the Dutch population at large.Adult Pompe disease is associated with a considerable burden of illness at both the societal and patient levels. The disease leads to substantial costs and dependency on medical devices, home care, and informal care, and has a high impact on the patient's social network. In addition, patients are limited in their ability to work and have significantly reduced HRQoL.To compare the responsiveness to clinical change of five widely used preference-based health-related quality-of-life indexes in two longitudinal cohorts.Five generic instruments were simultaneously administered to 376 adults undergoing cataract surgery and 160 adults in heart failure management programs. Patients were assessed at baseline and reevaluated after 1 and 6 months. The measures were the Short Form (SF)-6D (based on responses scored from SF-36v2), Self-Administered Quality of Well-being Scale (QWB-SA), the EuroQol-5D developed by the EuroQol Group, the Health Utilities Indexes Mark 2 (HUI2) and Mark 3 (HUI3). Cataract patients completed the National Eye Institute Visual Functioning Questionnaire-25, and heart failure patients completed the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire. Responsiveness was estimated by the standardized response mean.For cataract patients, mean changes between baseline and 1-month follow-up for the generic indices ranged from 0.00 (SF-6D) to 0.052 (HUI3) and were statistically significant for all indexes except the SF-6D. For heart failure patients, only the SF-6D showed significant change from baseline to 1 month, whereas only the QWB-SA change was significant between 1 and 6 months.Preference-based methods for measuring health outcomes are not equally responsive to change.To describe the Worldwide-Schizophrenia Outpatient Health Outcomes (W-SOHO) patient population at study entry, focusing on illness burden and prescribing practices across regions.The SOHO study was a 3-year, prospective, observational study designed to assess costs and outcomes associated with antipsychotic use in outpatients initiating or changing antipsychotic (with an emphasis on olanzapine compared with other antipsychotics). SOHO was conducted in 10 European countries and 27 other countries as Intercontinental SOHO (IC-SOHO). Data from all countries have been pooled to produce the W-SOHO dataset.Clinical Global Impression-Schizophrenia (CGI-SCH) severity scores, psychotropic medication use, adverse events, social interaction, housing and employment status, self-perceived health state (EuroQoL EQ-5D scale and Visual Analogue Scale, EQ-VAS), and reasons for initiation/change of antipsychotic.The W-SOHO database comprises 17,384 patients from six regions; East Asia (n = 1223), Central and Eastern Europe (n = 2175), Northern Europe (n = 4291), Southern Europe (n = 5788), Latin America (n = 2566), North Africa and the Middle East (n = 1341). Overall, patients were 38 +/- 13 years old (mean +/- SD), moderately ill (mean CGI-SCH overall score of 4.4 +/- 1.0) with a median duration of illness of 7 years (interquartile range 1-16 years); 43% were female, 10% were receiving antipsychotic medication for the first time. Adverse events were prevalent across all regions; on average, 50% (range 41-59%) of patients taking antipsychotics exhibited extrapyramidal symptoms at baseline, and 62% (34-67%) of patients reported sexual dysfunction in the previous month. On average, only 19% (16-23%) of patients were in paid employment and as many as 69% were living in dependent housing.Despite inherent diversity in these patients and the health care systems supporting them, there are striking cross-regional similarities in baseline characteristics for most measures. Not all countries are represented; regional comparisons may not be valid outside of the countries studied.To study how the choice of national EQ-5D tariff may affect utility and incremental quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) estimates.South Swedish rheumatoid arthritis patients in an observational study, starting and continuing anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) monotherapy (n=54) or anti-TNF plus methotrexate (n=215) for 1 year during May 2002 to April 2009, were included. EQ-5D questionnaires were completed at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months. Utilities and accumulated QALY were compared using the UK, US and Danish EQ-5D tariffs. Utilities for all 243 possible EQ-5D health states were also compared.US utilities were generally higher than UK, with Danish falling in between. A substantial 1-year mean utility improvement was seen in both study groups using all tariffs (UK 0.28 vs 0.29; US 0.18 vs 0.19; Danish 0.20 vs 0.22). Adjusting for baseline differences between groups, the incremental QALY gain of combined treatment was 0.09 using the UK tariff, while 0.06 according to both US and Danish tariffs. Inter-tariff disagreement in utility and accumulated QALY varied irregularly across the range of utilities.Applying different national EQ-5D tariffs to the same data may result in substantially different incremental QALY estimates, crucial knowledge when interpreting cost-utility analyses. Studies using different tariffs cannot be directly compared.This study compared the efficacy and safety of low-dose 7-day buprenorphine patches and prolonged-release tramadol tablets in patients with chronic, moderate to severe osteoarthritis (OA) pain of the hip and/or knee.Eligible patients were adults with a clinical and radiologic diagnosis of OA of the hip and/or knee and moderate to severe pain, as confirmed by a mean Box Scale 11 (BS-11) score >or=4 while using paracetamol 4000 mg/d for pain during the screening week. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either low-dose 7-day buprenorphine patches (patch strengths of 5, 10, and 20 microg/h, with a maximum dosage of 20 microg/h) or twice-daily prolonged-release tramadol tablets (tablet strengths of 75, 100, 150, and 200 mg, with a maximum dosage of 400 mg/d) over a 12-week open-label treatment period. Supplementary paracetamol was available as rescue medication throughout the study. The primary end point was the difference in BS-11 scores from baseline to the completion of treatment. Noninferiority was assumed if the treatment difference on the BS-11 scale was -1.5 boxes, indicating a clinically meaningful result. Secondary efficacy variables were rescue medication use, sleep disturbance and quality of sleep, and patients' and investigators' global assessments of pain relief. In addition, patient preference was assessed at the completion visit by asking patients whether, given equal pain relief, they would prefer basic treatment for OA pain with a patch applied once weekly or a tablet taken twice daily. Exploratory variables included investigators' assessments of patients' pain, stiffness, and ability to perform daily activities (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index); patients' quality of life (EuroQol EQ-5D health states index and EuroQol visual analog scale); and abuse and diversion of study drug.One hundred thirty-four patients (69 receiving 7-day buprenorphine patches and 65 receiving tramadol tablets) were randomized and received >or=1 dose of study medication. A respective 98.6% and 100% of the 2 treatment groups were white, with mean (SD) ages of 64.4 (11.1) and 64.2 (9.3) years. Both treatments were associated with a clinically meaningful reduction in pain from baseline to study completion. The least squares mean change from baseline in BS-11 scores in the 7-day buprenorphine patch and tramadol tablet groups was -2.26 (95% CI, -2.76 to -1.76) and -2.09 (95% CI, -2.61 to -1.58). The efficacy of 7-day buprenorphine patches was noninferior to that of prolonged-release tramadol tablets. The incidence of adverse events (AEs) was comparable in the 2 treatment groups: 226 AEs were reported in 61 patients (88.4%) in the 7-day buprenorphine patch group, and 152 AEs were reported in 51 patients (78.5%) in the tramadol group. Ten patients (14.5%) in the 7-day buprenorphine patch group and 19 (29.2%) in the tramadol tablet group withdrew from the study due to AEs. The most common AEs in the 7-day buprenorphine patch group were nausea (30.4%), constipation (18.8%), and dizziness (15.9%); the most common AEs in the tramadol tablet group were nausea (24.6%), fatigue (18.5%), and pain (12.3%). Most patients (47/67 [70.1%] in the 7-day buprenorphine patch group and 43/61 [70.5%] in the tramadol tablet group) reported that they would prefer a 7-day patch to a twice-daily tablet for future pain treatment.In these patients with chronic, moderate to severe OA pain of the hip and/or knee, 7-day low-dose buprenorphine patches were an effective and well-tolerated analgesic. The buprenorphine patches were noninferior to prolonged-release tramadol tablets. European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials number: 2006-003233-32.The present study was designed to assess the effect of monthly ibandronate on health-related quality of life (HR-QoL) in patients with postmenopausal osteoporosis previously treated with weekly bisphosphonates.HR-QoL was assessed by Euroqol (EQ-5D) and Osteoporosis Targeted Quality of Life (OPTQoL) questionnaires.The EQ-5D questionnaire showed significant improvement associated with ibandronate treatment, occurring in mobility (p < 0.01), usual activity (p < 0.01), pain/discomfort (p < 0.05), and anxiety/depression (p < 0.05). In addition, ibandronate treatment considerably improved patients' perceived health on a visual analog scale (p < 0.001). For the OPTQoL questionnaire, patients reported less physical difficulty (p < 0.001), fewer adaptations in their lives (p < 0.001), and less fear (p < 0.001) with ibandronate than with weekly bisphosphonates.The study demonstrated that patients who were transferred from weekly bisphosphonates to a monthly ibandronate experienced improved HR-QoL.The objective of the present study was to examine several dimensions of quality of life (QoL) and fatigue in patients with adrenal incidentaloma. This was a case-control study designed to analyze patient outcomes using three validated generic QoL questionnaires, EQ-5D, SF-36, and MFI-20, the results of which were compared to those obtained for age- and sex-matched controls. The study population comprised 139 consecutive patients with nonfunctioning adrenal masses (104 females, 35 males; age 59.1 ± 10.8) and 139 age- and sex-matched controls. Reduced QoL was found in patients with adrenal incidentaloma as compared to controls. Dimensions of QoL that were notably affected included mobility (P = 0.03), performance of usual activities (P = 0.002), and anxiety/depression (P = 0.04) as evaluated using the EQ-5D; physical functioning (P < 0.001), physical role (P < 0.001), general health (P < 0.001), vitality (P = 0.001), social functioning (P = 0.001), and emotional role (P < 0.001) as evaluated using the SF-36; and physical fatigue (P = 0.04) as assessed using the MFI-20 questionnaire. In addition, perceived health on a visual analogue scale was also significantly lower in patients than in controls (64.8 ± 19.2 vs. 77.1 ± 15.1; P < 0.001). Patients with adrenal incidentaloma reported reduced QoL and a higher level of physical fatigue compared to age- and sex-matched controls. This subject will benefit from further studies comparing QoL outcomes of laparoscopic adrenalectomy versus no treatment in patients with adrenal incidentaloma.The primary aim of this study was to provide an estimate of effect size for the functional outcome of operative versus non-operative treatment for patients with an acute rupture of the Achilles tendon using accelerated rehabilitation for both groups of patients. The secondary aim was to assess the use of a comprehensive cohort research design (i.e. a parallel patient-preference group alongside a randomised group) in improving the accuracy of this estimate within an orthopaedic trauma setting.Pragmatic randomised controlled trial and comprehensive cohort study within a level 1 trauma centre. Twenty randomised participants (10 operative and 10 non-operative) and 29 preference participants (3 operative and 26 non-operative). The ge range was 22-72 years and 37 of the 52 patients were men. All participants had an acute rupture of their Achilles tendon and no other injuries. All of the patients in the operative group had a simple end-to-end repair of the tendon with no augmentation. Both groups then followed the same eight-week immediate weight-bearing rehabilitation programme using an off-the-shelf orthotic. The disability rating index (DRI; primary outcome), EQ-5D, Achilles Total Rupture Score and complications were assessed ed at two weeks, six weeks, three months, six months and nine months after initial injury.At nine months, there was no significant difference in DRI between patients randomised to operative or non-operative management. There was no difference in DRI between the randomised group and the parallel patient preference group. The use of a comprehensive cohort of patients did not provide useful additional information as to the treatment effect size because the majority of patients chose non-operative management.Recruitment to clinical trials that compare operative and non-operative interventions is notoriously difficult; especially within the trauma setting. Including a parallel patient preference group to create a comprehensive cohort of patients has been suggested as a way of increasing the power of such trials. In our study, the comprehensive cohort model doubled the number of patients involved in the study. However, a strong preference for non-operative treatment meant that the increased number of patients did not significantly increase the ability of the trial to detect a difference between the two interventions.ISRCTN: ISRCTN29053307.To assess the association between clinical remission in RA and patient-reported outcomes (PROs), including depression/anxiety symptoms, in adults with moderate-to-severe active early RA.Patients from the COmbination of Methotrexate and ETanercept in Active Early Rheumatoid Arthritis (COMET) trial (104 weeks) with measures on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale at baseline and subsequent visits (n = 389) were included. PROs investigated were the HAQ disability index, pain and fatigue visual analogue scales (VASs), EuroQoL health status VAS and the Medical Outcomes Short Form-36 physical and mental component summaries. The impact of clinical remission as measured by 28-joint DAS (DAS-28) on depression/anxiety symptoms at Week 104 was assessed using logistic regression. Least square means for PRO improvements from baseline were estimated by analysis of covariance. Missing data were imputed using the last observation carried forward method.When depression/anxiety symptoms were absent at baseline, significantly more patients achieved clinical remission, low disease activity and normal functioning at Week 104. Reciprocally, patients who achieved clinical remission were less likely to maintain symptoms of depression or anxiety compared with non-remitters [depression odds ratio (OR): 0.35, P = 0.0233; anxiety OR: 0.48, P = 0.0371]. Fatigue and pain had a significant impact on changes in depression status, but did not influence anxiety status. Finally, clinical remission was significantly associated with improvements in all PRO measures (P < 0.001); conversely, depression/anxiety symptoms reduced PRO improvements.Among moderate-to-severe active early RA patients, clinical remission reduces symptoms of depression/anxiety, and independently improves PROs, thereby suppressing the negative impact of depression/anxiety on these measures.To compare the effects of etanercept (ETN) 50 mg once weekly plus methotrexate (MTX) versus MTX alone on patient-reported outcomes (PROs) and the relationship between remission and PRO improvement.In this double-blind, randomised clinical trial (COMET), PROs included: the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), EuroQoL health status, fatigue and pain visual analogue scales, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, and Medical Outcomes Short-Form-36. Mean changes from baseline were analysed by analysis of covariance using the last observation carried forward method. Results from week 52 are presented.Most PROs demonstrated significantly greater improvements with ETN+MTX than MTX alone, including physical functioning, pain, fatigue and overall health status. A significantly greater improvement in HAQ score was observed in the ETN+MTX than the MTX group (-1.02 vs -0.72; p<0.001) and a greater proportion reached the minimal clinically important difference of 0.22 (88% vs 78%; p<0.006). The relationship between PRO score and clinical status indicated that improvement was greatest among patients achieving remission.Early treatment with ETN+MTX leads to significantly greater improvements in multiple dimensions of PROs than MTX alone. The close relationship between disease activity and PRO improvement suggests that early treatment, with remission as a goal, should maximise the chance of restoring normal functioning and HRQoL.The relationship between health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in people with Parkinson's disease and their caregivers is little understood and any effects on caregiver strain remain unclear. This paper examines these relationships in an Australian sample.Using the generic EuroQol (EQ-5D) and disease-specific Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 Item (PDQ-39), HRQoL was evaluated in a sample of 97 people with PD and their caregivers. Caregiver strain was assessed using the Modified Caregiver Strain Index. Associations were evaluated between: (i) caregiver and care-recipient HRQoL; (ii) caregiver HRQoL and caregiver strain, and; (iii) between caregiver strain and care-recipient HRQoL.No statistically significant relationships were found between caregiver and care-recipient HRQoL, or between caregiver HRQoL and caregiver strain. Although this Australian sample of caregivers experienced relatively good HRQoL and moderately low strain, a significant correlation was found between HRQoL of people with PD and caregiver strain (rho 0.43, p < .001).Poor HRQoL in people with PD is associated with higher strain in caregivers. Therapy interventions may target problems reported as most troublesome by people with PD, with potential to reduce strain on the caregiver.To compare the relative effectiveness of systemic corticosteroids plus immunosuppression when indicated (systemic therapy) versus fluocinolone acetonide implant (implant therapy) for noninfectious intermediate, posterior, or panuveitis (uveitis).Randomized controlled parallel superiority trial.Patients with active or recently active uveitis.Participants were randomized (allocation ratio 1:1) to systemic or implant therapy at 23 centers (3 countries). Implant-assigned participants with bilateral uveitis were assigned to have each eye that warranted study treatment implanted. Treatment-outcome associations were analyzed by assigned treatment for all eyes with uveitis.Masked examiners measured the primary outcome: change in best-corrected visual acuity from baseline. Secondary outcomes included patient-reported quality of life, ophthalmologist-graded uveitis activity, and local and systemic complications of uveitis or therapy. Reading Center graders and glaucoma specialists assessing ocular complications were masked. Participants, ophthalmologists, and coordinators were unmasked.On evaluation of changes from baseline to 24 months among 255 patients randomized to implant and systemic therapy (479 eyes with uveitis), the implant and systemic therapy groups had an improvement in visual acuity of +6.0 and +3.2 letters (P = 0.16, 95% confidence interval on difference in improvement between groups, -1.2 to +6.7 letters, positive values favoring implant), an improvement in vision-related quality of life of +11.4 and +6.8 units (P = 0.043), a change in EuroQol-EQ5D health utility of +0.02 and -0.02 (P = 0.060), and residual active uveitis in 12% and 29% (P=0.001), respectively. Over the 24 month period, implant-assigned eyes had a higher risk of cataract surgery (80%, hazard ratio [HR] = 3.3, P < 0.0001), treatment for elevated intraocular pressure (61%, HR=4.2, P < 0.0001), and glaucoma (17%, HR=4.2, P = 0.0008). Patients assigned to systemic therapy had more prescription-requiring infections than patients assigned to implant therapy (0.60 vs 0.36/person-year, P=0.034), without notable long-term consequences; systemic adverse outcomes otherwise were unusual in both groups, with minimal differences between groups.In each treatment group, mean visual acuity improved over 24 months, with neither approach superior to a degree detectable with the study's power. Therefore, the specific advantages and disadvantages identified should dictate selection between the alternative treatments in consideration of individual patients' particular circumstances. Systemic therapy with aggressive use of corticosteroid-sparing immunosuppression was well tolerated, suggesting that this approach is reasonably safe for local and systemic inflammatory disorders.Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the references.The morphology of the coronary arteriographic lesions in 109 patients with coronary disease was correlated with their clinical history. Unstable angina, characterized by new onset of angina, angina at rest, or an increase in frequency or ease of precipitation of attacks within the previous two months, was present in 73 patients (group A). The other 36 patients had no history of instability within two months (group B). "Type T" lesions, defined as eccentric narrowing with jagged irregular borders with overlapping or undermined areas, or intraluminal filling defects circumferentially outlined by contrast material were found in 73 percent of group 1 vs 47 percent of group B (p less than 0.01). The presence of these angiographic lesions suggests that a ruptured atherosclerotic plaque and/or thrombus commonly plays a role in the etiology of unstable angina.We studied the effect of repeat detrusor botulinum neurotoxin type A injections on urinary symptoms, health and quality of life in patients with refractory neurogenic detrusor overactivity secondary to multiple sclerosis.This was a prospective, open label, single center study in 137 patients with multiple sclerosis treated with detrusor injections of botulinum neurotoxin type A with observations made from 2002 to 2009. A minimally invasive outpatient technique was used for injection. Patients were asked to contact the department if and when they required repeat treatment. Recurrent detrusor overactivity was then identified on urodynamics. The primary outcomes measured were the change in symptoms and quality of life, as assessed by the Urogenital Distress Inventory, Incontinence Impact Questionnaire and EuroQol-5 Dimensions questionnaires (www.ion.ucl.ac.uk/departments/repair/themes/uroneurology) before and 4 weeks after botulinum treatment. Continence status, the need for clean intermittent self-catheterization before and after injections, and interinjection intervals were also analyzed.Mean Urogenital Distress Inventory and Incontinence Impact Questionnaire 7 scores showed considerable improvement 4 weeks after each treatment even when repeated 6 times. Almost all patients relied on clean intermittent self-catheterization after treatment. Before the first treatment 83% of patients were incontinent but 4 weeks after the first treatment 76% (104 of 137) became completely dry. This efficacy was sustained with repeat injections. The median interval between re-treatments remained constant at 12 to 13 months.Repeated detrusor botulinum neurotoxin type A injections for refractory neurogenic detrusor overactivity in patients with multiple sclerosis have a consistent effect on bladder control, resulting in sustained improvement in quality of life.Arthritis is the leading cause of disability in the United States. We assess the generic health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) among a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults with and without self-reported arthritis.The NHMS, a cross-sectional survey of 3,844 adults (35-89 years) administered EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D), Health Utilities Index Mark 2 (HUI2) and 3 (HUI3), SF-36v2™, Quality of Well-being Scale self-administered form (QWB-SA), and the Health and Activities Limitations index (HALex) to each respondent via a telephone interview. Weighted multiple linear regression was used to generate age-gender-arthritis-stratified unadjusted HRQOL means and means adjusted for sociodemographic, socioeconomic covariates and comorbidities by arthritis-age category.The estimated population prevalence of self-reported arthritis was 31%. People with arthritis were more likely to be woman, older, of lower socioeconomic status, and had more self-reported comorbidities than were those not reporting arthritis. Adults with arthritis had lower HRQOL on six different indexes compared with adults without arthritis, with overall differences ranging from 0.03 (QWB-SA, age-group 65-74) to 0.17 (HUI3, age-group 35-44; all P-value < .05).Arthritis in adults is associated with poorer HRQOL. We provide age-related reference values for six generic HRQOL measures in people with arthritis.To undertake a cost-utility analysis (CUA) of a pharmacy-led self-management programme for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).A single outpatient COPD clinic at the Mater Hospital, Belfast, Northern Ireland between.CUA alongside a randomised control trial. The economic analysis used data from 127 COPD patients aged over 45 years, with an FEV1 of 30-80% of the predicted normal value. Participants received either a pharmacy-led education and self-management programme, or usual care. One year costs were estimated from the perspective of the National Health Service and Personal Social Services and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated based on responses to the EQ-5D at baseline, 6 and 12 months.Cost per QALY gained.The mean differences in costs and effects between the self-management and education programme and usual care were -£671.59 (95 CI%: -£1,584.73 to -£68.14) and 0.065 (95% CI; 0.000-0.128). Thus the intervention was the dominant strategy as it was both less costly and more effective than usual care. The probability of the intervention being cost-effective was 95% at a threshold of £20,000/QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses indicated that conclusions were robust to variations in most of the key parameters.The self-management and education programme was found to be highly cost-effective compared to usual care. Further research is required to establish what aspects of self-management and education programmes have the greatest impact on cost-effectiveness.The purpose of this study was to assess the degree of osteoarthritis, degree of laxity, and quality-of-life (QOL) scores in primary and revision anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction.This was a cross-sectional study; 25 patients who had undergone revision ACL reconstruction with allografts were identified and compared with 27 randomly selected primary ACL reconstruction patients operated on in the same hospital in the same period with the same technique. The main outcome measure was the International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) radiographic osteoarthritis sum score, and secondary outcome measures were Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, IKDC functional outcome measures, anterior laxity, and QOL at follow-up.The median follow-up was 5.3 years for revision reconstruction patients and 5.1 years for primary reconstruction patients. Radiographic IKDC sum scores for osteoarthritis were found to be significantly worse in revision patients, with a median of 4, compared with primary patients, with a median of 1 (P = .016). Differences were found in meniscal injury (P = .02) and cartilage status (P < .001) before or at the index operation. Significantly worse outcomes were found in the following subscores of the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score: pain (median, 92 v 97; P = .032), symptom (median, 86 v 96; P = .015), activities of daily living (median, 94 v 100; P = .020), sport (median, 50 v 85; P = .006), and QOL (median, 56 v 81; P = .001). IKDC functional outcome measures were the same in both groups except for the pivot-shift test (P = .007). No differences were found in anterior drawer, Lachman, or KT-1000 arthrometer (MEDmetric, San Diego, CA) testing. Present-day health scores on the EQ-5D were worse for revision reconstruction patients (median, 70 v 80; P = .009).Revision reconstruction patients have more signs of osteoarthritis and worse QOL than primary reconstruction patients, even though they have comparable IKDC success rates and KT-1000 arthrometer laxity test results.Level III, retrospective comparative study.Experience with anti-TNF agents for a decade can be used to research the safety and effectiveness of anti-TNF agents in the long term. The objective of this article is to describe drug survival, disease activity, daily functioning, quality of life and adverse events of TNF-blocking agents in daily clinical practice after 5 years of follow-up.Data from the Dutch Rheumatoid Arthritis Monitoring (DREAM) register of 1560 RA patients were used for analyses (5-year follow-up, n=174). Drug survival and time to first serious infection or malignancy were analysed by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Several outcome measures at several follow-up moments were analysed per intention to treat and per protocol.The 5-year drug survival of the first anti-TNF was 45%, and 60% for total use of TNF-blocking agents. Baseline 28-joint DAS (DAS-28) was 5.1 (s.d. 1.3). After 5 years, the mean DAS-28 was 3.2 (s.d. 1.3) in all patients who had started with TNF-blocking agents and 2.9 (s.d. 1.1) in patients who were still on TNF-blocking agents. In the latter group, the HAQ score was 0.88 (s.d. 0.7) and the EuroQol five dimensions (EQ-5D) utility score was 0.7 (s.d. 0.2). Incidence rates of serious infections and malignancies were 2.9 and 0.6 per 100 patient-years, respectively.Five-year follow-up of RA patients treated with TNF-blocking agents showed a 60% drug survival accompanied by sustained low disease activity, normalized function and quality of life similar to that in the general population. The benefit to risk ratio for long-term TNF-blocking therapy remains favourable.To evaluate health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in Japanese patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and investigate associations between the results of these QOL assessments and disease severity.One-hundred sixty-three Japanese MS patients completed a questionnaire battery comprising the Functional Assessment of MS (FAMS), the Nottingham Adjustment Scale-Japanese version (NAS-J), and the European QOL scale (EQ-5D). Additional five factors affecting QOL as identified by MS patients in a focus group interview were also investigated: employment status, change of income, availability of disease information, communication with medical staff, and care received. Disease severity was determined using the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS).There was a strong negative correlation of the subscale scores for mobility, symptoms, emotional well-being, thinking and fatigue, and additional concerns on the FAMS with EDSS score. For the NAS-J, only acceptance of the condition was correlated with disease severity. Among the five additional aspects of the condition identified by patients, employment status, income, and disease information were shown to be important for maintaining QOL in patients with MS.Support for finding employment and having increased or maintained household income and readily available information about the disease contribute to improving QOL in Japanese MS patients.To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of microwave endometrial ablation (MEA) and thermal balloon endometrial ablation (TBALL) for heavy menstrual bleeding.A cost-utility analysis performed alongside a pragmatic RCT in a single hospital within Scotland on women undergoing MEA and TBALL. Resource use data collected from all 314 trial participants were combined with study specific and published unit cost data to estimate a cost per patient. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were based on EQ-5D responses at baseline, 2 weeks, 6 and 12 months. The incremental cost per QALY of TBALL versus MEA was calculated and bootstrapping was performed to determine the likelihood that a treatment would be cost-effective at different threshold values for society's willingness to pay for a QALY.The mean cost of TBALL (10 years equipment life, 100 uses annually) of reusable equipment was pound181 (95% confidence interval [CI] pound70-434) greater than MEA. There were no statistically significant differences between the total nonhealth costs and health benefits of the two arms. On average, MEA provided more QALYs after adjusting for baseline EQ-5D score (0.017; 95% CI 0.017-0.051). In terms of mean incremental cost per QALY, MEA was, on average, dominant (less costly and at least as effective) and there was over a 90% chance that MEA would be considered cost-effective at a pound20,000 threshold of a cost per QALY.MEA is likely to be more cost-effective than TBALL at 1 year. Further longer-term follow-up is, however, needed.To develop a mapping algorithm for a conversion of the EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ BR-23 into the EQ-5D-derived utilities in metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients.We enrolled 199 patients with MBC from four leading Korean hospitals in 2009. EQ-5D utility, cancer-specific (QLQ-C30) and breast cancer-specific quality of life data (QLQ-BR23) and selected clinical and demographic information were collected from the study participants. Ordinary least squares regression models were used to model the EQ-5D using QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BR23 scale scores. To select the best model specification, six different sets of explanatory variables were compared.Regression analysis with the multiitem scale scores of QLQ-C30 was the best-performing model, explaining for 48.7% of the observed EQ-5D variation. Its mean absolute error between the observed and predicted EQ-5D utilities (0.092) and relative prediction error (2.784%) was among the smallest. Also, this mapping model showed the least systematic errors according to disease severity.The mapping algorithms developed have good predictive validity, and therefore, they enable researchers to translate cancer-specific health-related quality of life measures to the preference-adjusted health status of MBC patients.Inflammatory bowel disease is a chronic and relapsing inflammatory disorder of the intestine and has a great effect on patients' health-related quality of life (HRQOL). Some patients in remission are known to show functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs) and mood disorders (MDs), which may also negatively impact HRQOL. The aim of this study was to evaluate predictors of impaired HRQOL in inactive inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients.Patients presenting a long-standing remission during the previous year completed questionnaires of EuroQol, Rome III criteria for FGID, and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Survey. Demographic data including age, sex, employment status, education, smoking, and location of residence were also collected.Among the 513 patients with IBD, 226 (Crohn's disease 107 and ulcerative colitis 119, age 39.01±15.63, male 141) defined in remission were enrolled. Overall, 147 (65.0%) had at least 1 FGID with irritable bowel syndrome being the most common disorder (36.3%). Anxiety and depression were identified in 27.4% and 33.6%, respectively. Participants with FGID or MD had a significantly lower HRQOL status than those without disorders (P<0.01). Among various demographic and clinical variables, aged 40 or older [odds ratio (OR), 2.342; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.195-4.590; P=0.01], irritable bowel syndrome (OR, 3.932; 95% CI, 1.937-7.982; P<0.01), and anxiety (OR, 2.423; 95% CI, 1.067-5.502; P=0.03) were significant independent predictors of impaired HRQOL in inactive IBD patients.FGID and MD are common in Korean quiescent IBD patients. Appropriate management should be administered according to age of patients and presence of concomitant FGID and MD to improve patients' HRQOL.To assess quality of life (QOL) changes in patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD) before and after treatment with photodynamic therapy (PDT).In 625 patients with AMD, the EuroQol Health Questionnaire (EQ-5D) for general health status and the Visual Function Questionnaire (VF-4D) for vision-related reading ability, independence, and fear for the future were used and the results compared between within 1 week before PDT and 1 year after PDT. Subscale QOL changes were also scored with the Korean versions of EQ-5D and VF-4D.EQ-5D scores of male patients were higher than those of female patients (P < 0.05), and scores of unilateral patients were higher than those of bilateral patients (P < 0.001). Among all patients, 41.2% had a higher EQ-5D score after PDT. The mean differences between before and after treatment, estimated by three different models, the Korean model, the UK model, and the Japanese model, were all statistically significant (P < 0.001). Utility measured by the VF-4D score after PDT increased by 16.1% (P < 0.001), and subscale utilities indicated significant improvements in fear for the future (21.1%), reading ability (16.6%-14.5%), and independence (11.6%).PDT for patients with AMD improved both general health-related QOL and vision-related QOL, as well as subscale scores, as evaluated by EQ-5D and VF-4D.The purpose of this study was to examine the risk factors for suicidal ideation and suicide attempts among Korean older adults and to provide evidence for nursing intervention with respect to health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Data from adults 60 and older obtained through the Fourth Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (2007-2009) were used. Self-report questionnaires assessed suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and EuroQoL 5D (EQ-5D) scores. Survey logistic regression was used to reflect the complex survey design. Among the sample of 4,506 individuals, 27.3% had thought about and 1.7% had attempted suicide. Older adults with EQ-5D index scores <0.7 had a 9.1-fold greater odds ratio for suicidal ideation than those with scores of 1 (denotes completely healthy status) (95% confidence interval [CI] [5.3, 15.8]). For suicide attempts, older adults with EQ-5D index scores <0.7 had a 3.4-fold greater odds ratio (95% CI [1.3, 8.9]) than those with index scores of 0.8 to 1. Decreased HRQoL strongly affected suicidal ideation, regardless of disease status. Due to its comprehensiveness and simplicity, the EQ-5D may be useful for identifying older individuals in nursing homes at risk of attempting suicide.We evaluated changes in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in a longitudinal study of patients given antiviral therapy for chronic hepatitis B (CHB).We analyzed changes in HRQoL reported by 2856 Korean patients with CHB who started first-line or rescue antiviral therapy from January 2007 to June 2007; the mean age of the study subjects was 43.3 years, 72% were male, 80% were positive for hepatitis B e antigen, 20% had cirrhosis, and 13% had concomitant disease. These subjects all completed the translated version of the Chronic Liver Disease Questionnaire (CLDQ) and the EuroQol-5 Dimension (EQ5D) when the study began (baseline), and at the end of a 24-week follow-up period. We analyzed changes in utility scores from baseline to 24 weeks of antiviral treatment.After 24 weeks of antiviral therapy, patients had significant improvements in liver function and reduced mean levels of hepatitis B virus DNA (from 6.3 to 3.9 log(10) copies/mL). Utility scores from the visual analogue scale and EQ5D improved after 24 weeks of antiviral therapy (from 0.84 ± 0.19 to 0.94 ± 0.14; P < .0001). Improved CLDQ scores were associated with virologic response (level of hepatitis B virus DNA, <4 log(10) copies/mL); scores increased from 5.21 ± 0.99 at baseline to 6.09 ± 0.72 after 24 weeks of antiviral therapy in responders, but from 5.31 ± 0.94 at baseline to 6.06 ± 0.66 in nonresponders (P = .003).Patients with CHB who have a virologic response to 24 weeks of antiviral therapy also have significant improvements in HRQoL, measured by EQ5D and CLDQ.: This study evaluated continence, constipation and quality of life before and after perineal rectosigmoidectomy for full-thickness rectal prolapse.: Consecutive patients with full-thickness rectal prolapse undergoing perineal rectosigmoid- ectomy (Altemeier's procedure) between May 2004 and June 2008 were studied. A standardized questionnaire, including the Cleveland Clinic Constipation Score (CCCS), Cleveland Clinic Incontinence Score (CCIS) and quality of life scores (EuroQol-Five Dimensions, EuroQol-Visual Analogue Scale and Patient Assessment of Constipation-Quality of Life (PAC-QOL)), was administered before and after operation.: Thirty-eight patients (32 women) of mean(s.d.) age 75(13) years underwent rectosigmoid- ectomy. Seven patients developed postoperative complications and one died. There was one recurrence 5 months after surgery. Twenty-nine patients completed the follow-up questionnaire and were reviewed after a median of 24 (range 6-48) months. Constipation and incontinence were significantly improved after surgery (mean CCCS from 10.21 to 3.58 and CCIS from 14.17 to 11.42; P < 0.001). Quality of life, in terms of mobility, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression, were significantly better at follow-up (P < 0.001), as was subjective health status (P < 0.001). The PAC-QOL score improved significantly in all dimensions (P < 0.001).: Transperineal rectosigmoidectomy improves general and constipation-related quality of life with good functional results.Tinnitus is the perception of hearing a sound for which there is no external acoustic source. It is often associated with sudden, temporary hearing loss and has a clear impact on a patient's quality of life. Despite numerous trials, there are no treatments that can be considered well established in terms of providing replicable long-term tinnitus reduction. Complementary and alternative medical approaches have been employed to relieve symptoms of tinnitus. Bojungikgitang and banhabaekchulchonmatang are among the most strongly preferred and widely used herbal medicines for tinnitus in Korea, as they cause very few serious adverse effects.We aim to establish basic clinical efficacy and safety data for bojungikgitang and banhabaekchulchonmatang, which are approved as herbal medications by the Korea Food and Drug Administration in adult patients with tinnitus.This study was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with three parallel arms (bojungikgitang, banhabaekchulchonmatang, and a placebo). Participants included in the study met the following criteria: typical conditions of intermittent or continuous tinnitus, for more than three months, with involuntary perceptions of the concept of a sound in the absence of an external source. Participants received bojungikgitang, banhabaekchulchonmatang, or a placebo-drug for eight weeks. The total duration of each arm was eleven weeks. Each participant was examined for signs and symptoms of tinnitus before and after taking medication. Post-treatment follow-up was performed two weeks after the final administration of medication.This trial provided evidence for the efficacy and safety of bojungikgitang and banhabaekchulchonmatang in adult patients with tinnitus. The primary outcome measure was the Tinnitus Handicap Inventory, an assessment used to identify difficulties that may be experienced due to tinnitus. The secondary measures were included an Acoustic Examination and the Visual Analogue Scale. We employed the Euro-Qol 5-Dimension and the Health Utilities Index Mark 3, a health-related quality of life questionnaire. Safety was assessed by complete blood cell count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, blood chemistry, urine analysis, PA chest film, brain computed tomography, otologic examination, and vital signs.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN23691284.This study was conducted to assess the redistribution properties of the EQ-5D-3L when using the EQ-5D-5L and to compare the validity, informativity, and reliability of both EQ-5D-3L and EQ-5D-5L in Korean cancer patients.Patients visiting one ambulatory cancer center self-administered the two versions of the EQ-5D and the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire. Redistribution properties in each dimension of EQ-5D were analyzed between EQ-5D-3L and EQ-5D-5L. Informativity was evaluated using the Shannon entropy and ceiling effect. Convergent validity was evaluated by comparing the EQ-VAS, ECOG performance status, and EORTC QLQ-C30 subscales. Reliability was also evaluated in terms of test-retest reliability.All levels of the EQ-5D-3L substantially partitioned into associated levels of the EQ-5D-5L. The average inconsistency rate of the two versions was 3.5%. Absolute informativity was higher for the EQ-5D-5L than for the EQ-5D-3L, but their informative efficiency tended to be similar. The proportion of 'perfect health' (11111) decreased from 16.8% in the EQ-5D-3L to 9.7% in the EQ-5D-5L. EQ-5D-5L demonstrated similar or higher correlations with the EQ-VAS, ECOG performance status, and EORTC QLQ-C30, than the EQ-5D-3L. The intraclass correlation coefficient of the EQ-5D-5L index was 0.77.The EQ-5D-5L had greater informativity and lower rate in the ceiling effect than those values of the EQ-5D-3L. The EQ-5D-5L showed good construct validity and reasonable reliability. Therefore, considering these findings, the EQ-5D-5L may be preferable to the EQ-5D-3L.This was a randomized controlled pilot trial to evaluate the effectiveness of cupping therapy for neck pain in video display terminal (VDT) workers.Forty VDT workers with moderate to severe neck pain were recruited from May, 2011 to February, 2012. Participants were randomly allocated into one of the two interventions: 6 sessions of wet and dry cupping or heating pad application. The participants were offered an exercise program to perform during the participation period. A 0 to 100 numeric rating scale (NRS) for neck pain, measure yourself medical outcome profile 2 score (MYMOP2 score), cervical spine range of motion (C-spine ROM), neck disability index (NDI), the EuroQol health index (EQ-5D), short form stress response inventory (SRI-SF) and fatigue severity scale (FSS) were assessed at several points during a 7-week period.Compared with a heating pad, cupping was more effective in improving pain (adjusted NRS difference: -1.29 [95% CI -1.61, -0.97] at 3 weeks (p=0.025) and -1.16 [-1.48, -0.84] at 7 weeks (p=0.005)), neck function (adjusted NDI difference: -0.79 [-1.11, -0.47] at 3 (p=0.0039) and 7 weeks (p<0.0001)) and discomfort (adjusted MYMOP2 difference score: -0.72 [-1.04 to -0.40] at 3 weeks and -0.92 [-1.24, -0.60] at 7 weeks). Significant improvement in EQ-5D was observed at 7 weeks (1.0 [0.88, 1.0] with cupping and 0.91 [0.86, 0.91] with heating pad treatment, p=0.0054). Four participants reported mild adverse events of cupping.Two weeks of cupping therapy and an exercise program may be effective in reducing pain and improving neck function in VDT workers.An economic evaluation was performed alongside a randomised controlled trial (ISRCTN 74071417) investigating the cost-effectiveness of nurse-led telephone follow-up instead of hospital visits, and of a short educational group programme (EGP) in the first year after breast cancer treatment.This economic evaluation (n = 299) compared the one-year costs and the effects of four follow-up strategies: (1) hospital follow-up; (2) nurse-led telephone follow-up; (3) hospital follow-up plus EGP; and (4) nurse-led telephone follow-up plus EGP. Costs were measured using cost diaries and hospital registrations. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were measured using the EQ-5D. Outcomes were expressed in incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.Hospital follow-up plus EGP yielded most QALYs (0.776), but also incurred the highest mean annual costs (€4914). The ICER of this strategy versus the next best alternative, nurse-led telephone follow-up plus EGP (0.772 QALYs and €3971), amounted to €235.750/QALY. Hospital and telephone follow-up without EGP both incurred higher costs and less QALYs than telephone follow-up plus EGP and were judged inferior. Hospital follow-up plus EGP was not considered cost-effective, therefore, telephone follow-up plus EGP was the preferred strategy. The probability of telephone follow-up plus EGP being cost-effective ranged from 49% to 62% for different QALY threshold values. Secondary and sensitivity analyses showed that results were robust.Nurse-led telephone follow-up plus EGP seems an appropriate and cost-effective alternative to hospital follow-up for breast cancer patients during their first year after treatment.Decompressive surgery for malignant middle cerebral artery infarction increases the number of surviving patients; this, however, leaves some patients severely disabled. This study analyzed the patients' retrospective consent to hemicraniectomy in light of the experienced functional outcome 12 months after hospital stay.This retrospective study included all patients who underwent decompressive hemicraniectomy for malignant middle cerebral artery infarction in the Department of Neurology, University of Erlangen, Germany, from January 2006 until March 2009. Data on mortality and functional outcome (measured by the modified Rankin Scale; mRS) 6 and 12 months after treatment were correlated with retrospective consent to hemicraniectomy as well as with a quality of life instrument (EuroQol). Data were obtained by structured telephone interviews with the patients themselves or their closest relatives.In the study period 28 patients received decompressive surgery. Retrospective consent to hemicraniectomy was 82.1%. Five patients, or their closest relatives, would not agree to hemicraniectomy again, given their functional outcome after 1 year. Two out of two patients who experienced an mRS of 5 would not have consented. Low quality of life was most often declared in this subgroup.Retrospective consent to hemicraniectomy for treatment of malignant MCA infarction depends on functional long-term outcome. We need to identify those patients who would survive the malignant MCA infarction due to decompressive surgery but only reach a severely reduced functional status.This cohort, retrospective study, in the Jávorszky Ödön Hospital, Vác, Hungary, involved 109 patients after total hip replacement.The applied questionnaires included the EQ-5D health-related quality of life scores, the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Ostoearthritis Index (WOMAC) scores, the preoperative and the postoperative 5th year health characteristics. The severity of co-morbidities was graded in respect of clinical signs and pharmacological treatment.The WOMAC values significantly improved in the examination period. However - in spite of the changes in EQ-5D -, it had no influence on adherence of feeling sick after total hip replacement. Among the co-morbidities, the cardiovascular diseases had a distinguished role because their prevalence and deterioration showed a close relationship with the subjective health-feeling of the patients.According to our study, we have to consider that in case of significant hypertension, ischemic heart diseases or chronic heart failure even the successful surgery will not improve the general sick-feeling of the patients.To evaluate to what degree total hip replacement, or co-morbidities or their progression, influence the health-related quality of life of patients after the operation. We have looked for an objective method to reflect the severity of cardiovascular diseases and to better characterise the health-related quality of life of patients with total hip replacement.The main weakness of the different health-related quality of life methods that are applied to the analysis is the lack of information regarding the contributory role of co-morbidities, especially cardiovascular diseases.Retrospective longitudinal study.This study involved 109 patients who had had total hip replacement. The patients' health status - objective and subjective functional performance at the time of operation and five years later - was evaluated using questionnaires (including EQ-5D and Western Ontario and McMaster Universities' Ostoearthritis Index scores) and the hospital database. An Objective Cardiovascular Classification grouping was developed to evaluate the deterioration of cardiovascular diseases.The subjective assessment of the patients' health status at Year 5 revealed highly significant differences between healthy and sick patients in respect of EQ-5D and Objective Cardiovascular Classification but not in the case of the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities' Ostoearthritis Index scores. Evaluating postoperative subjective health awareness, a higher sensitivity and specificity and a significantly better individual-discriminating role was demonstrated in Objective Cardiovascular Classification vs. EQ-5D.After successful total hip replacement postoperative health awareness is influenced mainly by existing and developing cardiovascular diseases. It seems to be the case that for patients with significant hypertension, ischaemic heart disease or chronic heart failure, even successful surgery will not improve the patients' overall feeling of health.Nursing care of patients with total hip replacement, in respect of cardiovascular diseases, can contribute a better health-related quality of life.In daily clinical practise, there is a lack of representative and robust data on the health-related quality of life (QoL) of patients with atrial fibrillation (AF).In the non-interventional MOVE study, 638 physicians (predominantly cardiologists) in ambulatory care (78.0% of all centres) or hospital-based (12.7%), documented prospectively and retrospectively data from 3354 consecutive patients with ECG-confirmed AF in the previous 12 months (mean age 68.9 +/- 10.1 years; 62.4% males, mean CHADS (2) score 1.9 +/- 1.3). 1136 (33.9%) had paroxysmal, 899 (26.8%) persistent and 1295 (38.6%) permanent AF.Symptoms within the previous 4 weeks were present in 89.9% of the cases and 43.1% of the patients reported palpitations in the range from sometimes to very frequently. As treatment aim, physicians reported rate control in 64%, rhythm control in 8%, and both in 19% of the cases (not stated: 8%). In the University of Toronto Atrial Fibrillation Severity Scale (AFSS), emergency room attendance or hospitalizations for AF or associated diseases in the previous 12 months were reported in 24.2% or 30.8%, respectively. Rhythm control was associated with higher emergency room admittance or hospitalization rates, respectively. The EQ-5D index (0.94 points) was near the maximum of 1; thus this index does not appear to reflect QoL of AF patients adequately. Analyses of the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) of the EuroQol (EQ-5D), and the assessment scale or specific questions of AFSS, respectively, indicated an intermediate QoL or disease burden, respectively. No or only small differences were documented between subgroups with different AF types, or subgroups treated according to different aims.The great majority of AF patients had one or more recent AF symptoms, and their overall QoL was limited. In daily practise, rate control is not inferior to rhythm control in AF patients with respect to QoL.The aim of the current study was to evaluate patient-centred and economic outcomes after introduction of a clinical pathway for total knee arthroplasty.In a prospective trial two sequential cohorts of patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty were recruited. Baseline treatment was surveyed in cohort I and the clinical pathway was developed and evaluated in cohort II. Data from WOMAC, EQ-5D as well as partial cost data were collected. The study design was ratified by the local Independent Ethics Committee.There was an increase in WOMAC score of 39% for cohort I and 35% for cohort II in 3 months follow-up. Similar results were found for ED-5D with an increase of 30% for cohort I and 25% for cohort II. Partial cost rates could be lowered from 4303 EUR to 419 EUR. Despite this significant cost saving we were not able to improve the ratio of improvement in quality of life to costs.With the aid of a clinical pathway the process for implementation of a total knee arthroplasty was improved and treatment quality assured.We evaluated 4 different health-related quality of life (HRQL) measures prospectively to determine their ability to detect change over time: the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 and Mark 3, the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) 4.0 Generic Core and Cancer Module, the EuroQol EQ-5D visual analogue scale (EuroQol), and the Lansky Play-Performance Scale.Children with all stages of Hodgkin disease from 12 centers across Canada were asked to complete the 4 measures at 4 time points: 2 weeks after the first course of chemotherapy, on the third day of the second course of chemotherapy, during the third week of radiation, and 1 year after diagnosis.Fifty-one patients were enrolled in the study between May 1, 2002 and March 31, 2005. Two patients were excluded: 1 patient died shortly after the first time point and the other patient failed to complete any of the questionnaires. All measures showed a significant change between Time 1 and Time 4 (<0.05). When the change in child scores was analyzed between the time points using the child's self-reported change in HRQL, the PedsQL and the EuroQol showed significant change at all time points.All of the measures were able to detect change in a diverse group of children with Hodgkin disease. The PedsQL and the EuroQol appeared to be the most sensitive to change.University students are subjected to different kinds of stressors, i.e.academic pressures, social issues and financial problems. This can affect their academic achievements and quality of life.The aim of this study was to determine the health-related quality of life of university students, and how it is affected by the presence of chronic diseases, mental disorders comorbidity, and patterns of medical services' use.This web-based study included a sample of 1,410 Slovenian university students. We used a self-administered questionnaire, containing a sheet with demographic data, Zung's self-assessment inventories about anxiety and depression, and EQ-5D questionnaire. The main outcome measures were scores on EQ-5D part and VAS part of the EQ-5D questionnaire.Independent factors associated with the health-related quality of life of university students, were the presence of chronic pain, the presence of depression and anxiety, need for urgent medical help and at least one visit to a clinical specialist in the past year. The independent factors associated with the health status of university students were the presence of chronic diseases, chronic pain, depression and anxiety, a visit to a clinical specialist, a need for urgent medical help and a visit to an emergency unit in the past year.Health-related quality of life of university students can be seriously affected by the presence of mental disorders and chronic pain. Appropriate health-related measures should be adopted to achieve early recognition of worse health-related quality of life, the presence of mental disorders and other chronic conditions, and to enable their effective treatment.Health status is represented by people's subjective assessment of their sense of well-being and ability to perform social roles and has been well accepted as a health indicator of different populations. The aim of this study was to determine health-related quality of life in Slovenian population.We performed a cross-sectional postal survey in a random stratified sample of 1,000 adult Slovenian inhabitants. The questionnaire consisted of the respondents' demographic data (sex, age, education level, employment status, living environment), self-reported chronic conditions, self-reported use of health services and EQ-5D instrument for measuring quality of life.The response rate was 41% (53.1% men, mean age 51.5 years). Respondents reported most problems in the pain dimension of EQ-5D (59.3%), following by mobility (30.4%), anxiety/depression (30.3%), daily activities (29.8%) and self-care (9.0%). At least one moderate problem was reported by 272 (66.3%) respondents. Independent factors, associated with problems in any EQ-5D dimension were primary and vocational education, older age, high blood pressure, rheumatic diseases, back problems, anxiety/depression, a visit to the emergency department in the past year, and a house visit from a family doctor in the past year.The present study showed that the health-related quality of life of the Slovenian inhabitants is lower than the one found in some other European countries. This finding is surprising and also worrying. Because we cannot find any perceptible reason for this observation, larger and prospective studies are needed to confirm those results and to determine the reasons for that.The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of the Urban Zen Initiative, an "optimal healing environment" intervention, at Beth Israel Medical Center on both quantitative and qualitative measures of the experience of patients admitted for inpatient oncology care.A quasi-experimental design was used comparing a baseline sample of patients admitted to the oncology floor before the intervention to a similar group admitted during the intervention. Data collected included the Profile of Mood States, the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D), and, on a subset of patients, a semistructured qualitative interview.Patients in the intervention group experienced significantly less emotional distress during their stay when compared to patients in the baseline group. There were also significantly greater improvements in pain and discomfort during the stay in the treatment group as compared to controls. The qualitative analysis described a number of possible explanations for this change including increased sense of connection and control as well as specific techniques for symptom relief.It is possible to improve the experience of patients admitted for inpatient cancer care with a "healing environment" intervention. Further studies are needed that incorporate randomized design and the ability to examine specific components of the intervention independently as well as the impact of the intervention as a whole.To analyze the change in health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and to identify different classes of HRQoL decline.A longitudinal cohort study was performed to assess clinical parameters (unified PD rating scale, Beck Depression Inventory) and HRQoL data (EuroQol, Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire [PDQ]-39) at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months. A total of 145 patients with PD were consecutively recruited in the county of Northern Hessia, Germany, between January and June 2000. A latent growth mixture model was applied to analyse the heterogeneity in HRQoL trajectories.We successfully applied latent mixture growth modeling in order to identify different classes of HRQoL trajectories in PD. Three growth models were developed and each resulted in a four-class model of distinct patterns using the generic EuroQol instruments' outcomes (EuroQol-5 Dimensions and visual analogue scale) and the disease-specific PDQ-39. The four classes were defined by individual trajectory characteristics. Classes one and two represented trajectories with moderate declines over 36 months, but with different initial intercepts. Class three consisted mainly of patients who passed away during the observation period and therefore had a large HRQoL decline. Class four was characterized by a low level of HRQoL at baseline and a significant subsequent decline.The findings provide a more elaborate understanding of the variability in HRQoL reduction in PD over time. The classification of different HRQoL subgroups may help to explain the response of PD patients to the natural history of the disease. Future research will enable the identification of HRQoL responder subgroups on different treatment regimens.The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) on patients' sexuality and identify disease and other factors such as fatigue that most influence sexual relationships.A specific pretested questionnaire was sent to all members of a French patient association (ANDAR). Questions related to demographics, disease status, quality of life (utility, EQ-5D), pain, psychological status (mood), fatigue and emotional and sexual relationships. To isolate the impact of RA, an attempt was made to include a matched sample from the general population.The analysis included 1271 patients, but only 70 controls agreed to participate and comparisons should therefore be considered with caution. The two groups were similar in terms of age, gender distribution, living conditions and diseases other than RA. However, patients scored worse for global health, mood, fatigue, had a lower utility (0.55 versus 0.65). Controls were more active sexually (69% versus 63%), in particular women (71% versus 60%). Age, gender, living alone, physical function and mood were significant predictors for being sexually active for patients; for controls, age and overall quality of life (utility) were significant predictors.While it is known that RA has a negative impact on patients' sexuality, there have been few attempts to quantify the problem. Our study highlights the negative impact of RA on patients' sexuality, and triggers the question how to include this aspect into care.Although persistent developmental stuttering is known to affect daily living, just how great the impact is remains unclear. Furthermore, little is known about the underlying mechanisms which lead to a diminished quality of life (QoL). The primary objective of this study is to explore to what extent QoL is impaired in adults who stutter (AWS). In addition, this study aims to identify determinants of QoL in AWS by testing relationships between stuttering severity, coping, functioning and QoL and by testing for differences in variable scores between two AWS subgroups: receiving therapy versus not receiving therapy. A total of 91 AWS filled in several questionnaires to assess their stuttering severity, daily functioning, coping style and QoL. The QoL instruments used were the Health Utility Index 3 (HUI3) and the EuroQoL EQ-5D and EQ-VAS. The results indicated that moderate to severe stuttering has a negative impact on overall quality of life; HUI3 derived QoL values varied from .91 (for mild stuttering) to .73 (for severe stuttering). The domains of functioning that were predominantly affected were the individual's speech, emotion, cognition and pain as measured by the HUI3 and daily activities and anxiety/depression as measured by the EQ-5D. AWS in the therapy group rated their stuttering as more severe and recorded more problems on the HUI3 speech domain than AWS in the non-therapy group. The EQ-VAS was the only instrument that showed a significant difference in overall QoL between groups. Finally, it was found that the relationship between stuttering severity and QoL was influenced by the individual's coping style (emotion-oriented and task-oriented). These findings highlight the need for further research into stuttering in relation to QoL, and for a broader perspective on the diagnosis and treatment of stuttering, which would take into consideration quality of life and its determinants.To assess the costs and cost effectiveness of phototherapy with ultraviolet B light provided at home compared with outpatient ultraviolet B phototherapy for psoriasis.Cost utility, cost effectiveness, and cost minimisation analyses performed alongside a pragmatic randomised clinical trial (the PLUTO study) at the end of phototherapy (mean 17.6 weeks) and at one year after the end of phototherapy (mean 68.4 weeks).Secondary care, provided by a dermatologist in the Netherlands.196 adults with psoriasis who were clinically eligible for narrowband (TL-01) ultraviolet B phototherapy were recruited from the dermatology departments of 14 hospitals and were followed until the end of phototherapy. From the end of phototherapy onwards, follow-up was continued for an unselected, consecutive group of 105 patients for one year after end of phototherapy.Ultraviolet B phototherapy provided at home (intervention) and conventional outpatient ultraviolet B phototherapy (control) in a setting reflecting routine practice in the Netherlands. Both treatments used narrowband ultraviolet B lamps (TL-01).Total costs to society, quality adjusted life years (QALYs) as calculated using utilities measured by the EQ-5D questionnaire, and the number of days with a relevant treatment effect (>/=50% improvement of the baseline self administered psoriasis area and severity index (SAPASI)).Home phototherapy is at least as effective and safe as outpatient phototherapy, therefore allowing cost minimisation analyses (simply comparing costs). The average total costs by the end of phototherapy were euro800 for home treatment and euro752 for outpatient treatment, showing an incremental cost per patient of euro48 (95% CI euro-77 to euro174). The average total costs by one year after the end of phototherapy were euro1272 and euro1148 respectively (difference euro124, 95% CI euro-155 to euro403). Cost utility analyses revealed that patients experienced equal health benefits-that is, a gain of 0.296 versus 0.291 QALY (home v outpatient) by the end of phototherapy (difference 0.0052, -0.0244 to 0.0348) and 1.153 versus 1.126 QALY by one year after the end of phototherapy (difference 0.0267, -0.024 to 0.078). Incremental costs per QALY gained were euro9276 and euro4646 respectively, both amounts well below the normally accepted standard of euro20 000 per QALY. Cost effectiveness analyses indicated that the mean number of days with a relevant treatment effect was 42.4 versus 55.3 by the end of phototherapy (difference -12.9, -23.4 to -2.4). By one year after the end of phototherapy the number of days with a relevant treatment effect were 216.5 and 210.4 respectively (6.1, -41.1 to 53.2), yielding an incremental cost of euro20 per additional day with a relevant treatment effect.Home ultraviolet B phototherapy for psoriasis is not more expensive than phototherapy in an outpatient setting and proved to be cost effective. As both treatments are at least equally effective and patients express a preference for home treatment, the authors conclude that home phototherapy should be the primary treatment option for patients who are eligible for phototherapy with ultraviolet B light.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN83025173 and Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00150930.Health-related quality of life is a multidimensional concept which describes relevant aspects of physical, emotional and social well-being as reported by patients. Numerous generic and disease-specific instruments for measuring health-related quality of life have been developed and in addition preference-based instruments are available for use in health economic evaluation. The SF-36 and EQ-5D questionnaires belong to the most frequently used generic measures of quality of life. The Trauma Outcome Profile (TOP) and the Quality of Life after Brain Injury (QOLIBRI) questionnaires are disease-specific measures designed to assess health-related quality of life after trauma. In the context of a brief description of these questionnaires several examples of their use in studies of patients after trauma are given. These examples show that successful conceptual and methodological developments in quality of life research provide a sound basis for patient-oriented outcome assessment after trauma.The literature on changes in health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in weight loss studies is inconsistent, and few studies use more than one type of measure. The purpose of the current study was to compare one-year changes in HRQOL as a function of weight change using three different measures: a weight-related measure (Impact of Weight on Quality of Life-Lite [IWQOL-Lite)]) and two generic measures (SF-36; EQ-5D).Data were obtained from 926 participants (mean Body Mass Index (BMI) (kg/m(2)) = 35.4; 84% female; mean age = 49.5 years) in a placebo-controlled randomized trial for weight loss. At baseline and one-year, participants completed all three HRQOL measures. HRQOL was compared across weight change categories (> or = 5% and 0-4.9% gain, 0-4.9%, 5.0-9.9% and > or = 10% loss), using effect sizes.The weight-related measure of HRQOL exhibited greater improvements with one-year weight loss than either of the generic instruments, with effect sizes ranging from 0.24 to 0.62 for 5-9.9% weight reductions and 0.44 to 0.95 for > or = 10% reductions. IWQOL-Lite Self-Esteem also showed a small improvement with weight gain. Changes in the two generic measures of HRQOL were inconsistent with each other, and in the case of the SF-36, variable across domains. For participants gaining > or = 5% of weight, the greatest reductions in HRQOL occurred with respect to SF-36 Mental Health, MCS, and Vitality, with effect sizes of -0.82, -0.70, and -0.63 respectively.This study found differences between weight-related and generic measures of health-related quality of life in a one-year weight loss trial, reflecting the potential value of using more than one measure in a trial. Although weight loss was generally associated with improved IWQOL-Lite, physical SF-36 subscale and EQ-5D scores, a small amount of weight gain was associated with a slight improvement on weight-specific HRQOL and almost no change on the EQ-5D, suggesting the need for further research to more fully study these relationships. We believe our findings have relevance for weight loss patients and obesity clinicians/researchers in informing them of likely HRQOL outcomes associated with varying amounts of weight loss or gain.Graded health benefits of physical activity have been demonstrated for the reduction of coronary heart disease, some cancers, and type-2 diabetes, and for injury reduction and improvements in mental health. Older adults are particularly at risk of physical inactivity, and would greatly benefit from successful targeted physical activity interventions.The Healthy Steps study is a 12-month randomized controlled trial comparing the efficacy of a pedometer-based Green Prescription with the conventional time-based Green Prescription in increasing and maintaining physical activity levels in low-active adults over 65 years of age. The Green Prescription interventions involve a primary care physical activity prescription with 3 follow-up telephone counselling sessions delivered by trained physical activity counsellors over 3 months. Those in the pedometer group received a pedometer and counselling based around increasing steps that can be monitored on the pedometer, while those in the standard Green Prescription group received counselling using time-based goals. Baseline, 3 month (end of intervention), and 12 month measures were assessed in face-to-face home visits with outcomes measures being physical activity (Auckland Heart Study Physical Activity Questionnaire), quality of life (SF-36 and EQ-5D), depressive symptoms (Geriatric Depression Scale), blood pressure, weight status, functional status (gait speed, chair stands, and tandem balance test) and falls and adverse events (self-report). Utilisation of health services was assessed for the economic evaluation carried out alongside this trial. As well, a process evaluation of the interventions and an examination of barriers and motives for physical activity in the sample were conducted. The perceptions of primary care physicians in relation to delivering physical activity counselling were also assessed.The findings from the Healthy Steps trial are due in late 2009. If successful in improving physical activity in older adults, the pedometer-based Green Prescription could assist in reducing utilisation of health services and improve cardiovascular health and reduction of risk for a range of non-communicable lifestyles diseases.Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN012606000023550.EQ-5D, HUI II and SF-6D often produce very different valuations for the same health state. This paper aims at clarifying to what extent this might be caused by differences between the multi-attribute classification systems belonging to these instruments.Subjects were 264 patients of rehabilitation clinics in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania (44.3% female; mean age 49.1) who completed the EQ-5D, the HUI II and the SF-36 (the basis of the SF-6D). After scaling with principal component analyses for categorical data, each attribute of each classification system was regressed on the classification systems of the other two instruments, and all attributes together were subjected to ordinary principal component analysis with varimax rotation.Adjusted multiple R(2) for regression analyses ranged from 0.01 to 0.57. The HUI II attribute 'sensation' and the SF-6D attribute 'role limitation' are virtually unrelated to the remainder. All other attributes of all three instruments can be predicted by each other. EQ-5D and HUI II focus distinctly more on physical functioning than SF-6D.Although all three classification systems have a lot in common, they differ so much that EQ-5D, HUI II and SF-6D would produce different valuations even if these valuations were determined according to the same principle.To analyze the impact of a capitated multi-sector-financing model for psychiatric care (RPB) on costs and effectiveness of care.Patients with a diagnosis according to ICD-10 F10, F2 or F3 were interviewed in the model region (MR, n = 258) and a control region (CR, n = 244) financed according to the fee-for-service principle. At baseline, 1.5 years and 3.5 years follow-up patients were interviewed using measures of psychopathology (CGI-S, HoNOS, SCL-90R, PANSS, BRMAS / BRMES), functioning (GAF, SOFAS) and quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF, EQ-5D). Use of care was determined semi-annually.There were no significant differences in the development of psychopathology and quality of life between MR and CR. In the MR, functioning of patients with schizophrenia and affective disorders improved significantly more strongly. The development of total mental health care costs was not different between MR and CR. However, the costs of office based mental health care increased slightly more strongly in the MR, indicating a small cost-shift from the RPB to extrabudgetary financed services.The RPB showed slight advantages regarding the effectiveness of care and did not significantly change the total mental health care costs.Due to demographic change, the advanced elderly represent the fastest growing population group in Europe. Health problems tend to be frequent and increasing with age within this cohort.To describe and compare health status of the elderly population in six European countries and to analyze the impact of socio-demographic variables on health.In the European Study of the Epidemiology of Mental Disorders (ESEMeD), representative non-institutionalized population samples completed the EQ-5D and Short Form-12 (SF-12) questionnaires as part of personal computer-based home interviews in 2001-2003. This study is based on a subsample of 1659 respondents aged ≥ 75 years from Belgium (n = 194), France (n = 168), Germany (n = 244), Italy (n = 317), the Netherlands (n = 164) and Spain (n = 572). Descriptive statistics, bivariate- (chi-square tests) and multivariate methods (linear regressions) were used to examine differences in population health.68.8% of respondents reported problems in one or more EQ-5D dimensions, most frequently pain/discomfort (55.2%), followed by mobility (50.0%), usual activities (36.6%), self-care (18.1%) and anxiety/depression (11.6%). The proportion of respondents reporting any problems increased significantly with age in bivariate analyses (age 75-79: 65.4%; age 80-84: 69.2%; age ≥ 85: 81.1%) and differed between countries, ranging from 58.7% in the Netherlands to 72.3% in Italy. The mean EQ VAS score was 61.9, decreasing with age (age 75-79: 64.1; age 80-84: 59.8; age ≥ 85: 56.7) and ranging from 60.0 in Italy to 72.9 in the Netherlands. SF-12 derived Physical Component Summary (PCS) and Mental Component Summary (MCS) scores varied little by age and country. Age and low educational level were associated with lower EQ VAS and PCS scores. After controlling for socio-demographic variables and reported EQ-5D health states, mean EQ VAS scores were significantly higher in the Netherlands and Belgium, and lower in Germany than the grand mean.More than two thirds of the advanced elderly report impairment of health status. Impairment increases rapidly with age but differs considerably between countries. In all countries, health status is significantly associated with socio-demographic variables.Preference-based health-state values, also referred to as utility scores, are considered an important measure of outcome in the evaluation of healthcare. A common approach to elicit utility scores is the use of the time trade-off (TTO) method; however, the data on TTO utility scores in patients with mental disorders are scarce.To analyse the TTO method in patients with mental disorders in terms of discriminative ability, validity and the refusal to trade life time (zero trade).In patients with affective (n = 172), schizophrenia spectrum (n = 166) and alcohol-related (n = 160) mental disorders, TTO utilities were administered through a standardized interview. Measures of quality of life (QOL) EQ-5D, WHOQOL-BREF, subjective (SCL-90R) and objective (CGI-S) psychopathology, and functioning (GAF, GARF, SOFAS, HoNOS) provided comparison. Discriminative ability was analysed by assessing frequency distributions of TTO utilities. Validity was analysed by assessing the correlation of TTO utilities with all other scores. The association of a patient's QOL, sociodemographic and disease-related variables with zero trade was analysed by logistic regression.Of patients with affective/schizophrenic/alcohol-related mental disorders, 153/143/145 (89/86/91%), respectively, completed the TTO elicitation; 29/43/28% of the respondents were zero traders. The mean TTO utility was 0.66/0.75/0.61 and the median was 0.85/0.95/0.75. TTO utility scores discriminated well among more impaired mental health states, but discrimination was limited among less impaired health states. In patients with affective and alcohol-related mental disorders, TTO utility scores were significantly correlated (mostly moderate: 0.3 < r < 0.5) with all other scores. However, in schizophrenic patients, TTO utility scores were only a little correlated with other subjective measures and not correlated with objective measures. QOL was significantly associated with zero trade; the influence of the other variables on zero trade was negligible.TTO utility scores in patients with affective or alcohol-related mental disorders were reasonably valid, but discriminative ability was compromised by a ceiling effect due to zero trade. In schizophrenic patients, validity of TTO utility scores was not demonstrated.Diabetes patients suffer from comorbid conditions and disease-related complications. Combined with demographic, clinical and treatment satisfaction variables, they have a confounding effect on health-related quality of life (HRQoL). This study compared the sensitivity of EQ-5D, SF-6D and 15D utilities to the specific effect of diabetes complications.Utilities were compared in 319 type II diabetics with and without comorbidities and complications. Based on subsample size and confirmed diagnoses, coronary heart disease (CHD) and diabetic retinopathy (DR) were two complications chosen for further analysis. Significant EQ-5D, SF-6D and 15D predictors were identified with OLS regression and subsequently controlled for with ANCOVA.The presence of CHD resulted in utility decrements (P < 0.001) for all instruments, whereas DR only decreased 15D utilities (P < 0.05). Gender, age, treatment satisfaction, arthropathy and diabetic foot were significant predictors throughout, whereas BMI, neuropathy and CHD for at least two utilities. After controlling for these confounding variables, 15D still discriminated between diabetics with and without CHD (P < 0.01) and DR (P < 0.05), with seven and five dimensions affected, respectively.After removing the effect of background variables, 15D utilities remain sensitive to CHD and DR. The obvious explanation is its richer descriptive system, which provides increased discriminative ability compared to EQ-5D and SF-6D, and this might be evidence for preferring the 15D in economic evaluations of interventions for diabetics. However, the need remains for further testing in other diabetes complications and more diverse patient samples.To assess the impact of tuberculosis (TB) and its treatment on patients' health status.Questionnaires were administered prospectively to patients at three clinics in London at diagnosis and 2 months into therapy. We assessed generic health-related quality of life (Short Form 36 [SF-36] and EQ-5D) and psychological burden (State-Trait Anxiety Short-Form, Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale, worry items).Of the 61 participants (response rate 94%), 89% were non-UK born, 67% had pulmonary TB and 38% were aged 30-45 years. At diagnosis, scores for all eight SF-36 dimensions were significantly worse than UK general population norm scores. At follow-up, scores had improved significantly (P < 0.01), except for physical functioning and general health perception, but remained below the UK norm, except for vitality and mental health. Respondents' mean anxiety and depression scores were high at diagnosis (48 and 22, respectively), and anxiety scores remained high at follow-up. Worries most frequently reported concerned patients' own health (92%) and that of their family (82%).TB patients suffer from significantly diminished health-related quality of life at diagnosis. Although treatment significantly improved patients' health status within 2 months, scores for many domains remain below UK norm scores. This emphasises the importance of a holistic approach to care and should inform the evaluation of future interventions.With increasing life expectancy the management of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in patients of an older age is of growing importance. However, long-term data are limited regarding 'hard' endpoints and quality of life in unselected elderly patients in 'real world' settings.From March 2005 to March 2006 all 75-84-year old patients consecutively hospitalised due to an incident AMI in a large community teaching hospital were analyzed (N=235). Evidence-based therapy included the treatment with aspirin (93%), clopidogrel (65%), betablockers (93%), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin receptor blockers (84%), and statins (83%). Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was performed in 45.5% and bypass grafting (CABG) in 10.2%. The 28-day-case fatality was 17.4%. Long-term follow-up was obtained in 95.9% of all hospital survivors at a mean of 18.7 ± 6.4 months; during this time 19.9% of patients died. After multivariate analysis the only significantly negative predictor for survival and MACCE was diabetes, and the only significantly positive predictor was revascularisation during hospital stay. Patients with PCI/CABG had lower NYHA class (81% vs. 48%; p<0.04). Patients with PCI also had a higher EQ-5D index score (75 ± 18 vs. 67 ± 17, p<0.04) compared to patients not receiving PCI.The positive long-time effect of revascularisation procedures during hospitalisation, not only on 'hard' endpoints but also on functional outcome and quality of life emphasizes that invasive therapies should not be considered less valuable in elderly people and that age alone should not preclude aggressive treatment during AMI.The most common complication of osteoporosis is vertebral fractures, which occur more frequently than all other fractures (hip, wrist, and ankle).To prospectively analyze vertebroplasty compared with kyphoplasty for the treatment of osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures using improvement in pain, functional capacity, and quality of life as outcome measures.The study population included 28 patients in the vertebroplasty group and 24 patients in the kyphoplasty group. The mean follow-up period was 42.2 weeks and 42.3 weeks in the vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty groups, respectively. Outcomes were measured pre- and postoperatively using the visual analogue scale, the Oswestry Disability Index, the EuroQol-5D questionnaire, and the Short-Form 36 Health Survey.In the vertebroplasty group, visual analogue scale scores improved from a mean of 8.0 cm to 5.5 cm at last follow-up (P = .001). Preoperatively, the Oswestry Disability Index was 57.6, which improved to 38.4 (P = .006). The EuroQol-5D score preoperatively was 0.157 and improved to 0.504 (P = .001). The Short-Form 36 Health Survey showed greatest improvement in the areas of physical health, role physical, body pain, and vitality. In the kyphoplasty group, visual analogue scale scores improved from a mean of 7.5 cm preoperatively to 2.5 cm postoperatively (P = .000001). The mean Oswestry Disability Index preoperatively was 50.7 and improved to 28.8 (P = .002). The EuroQol-5D score improved from a mean of 0.234 preoperatively to 0.749 (P = .00004). The Short-Form 36 Health Survey showed greatest improvement in the areas of physical health, physical functioning, role physical, body pain, and social functioning.Both vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are effective at improving pain, functional disability, and quality of life; however, kyphoplasty provides better results, which are maintained over long-term follow-up.Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) I is a debilitating neuropathic pain disorder characterized by burning pain and allodynia. Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is effective in the treatment of CRPS I in the medium term but its long-term efficacy and ability to improve functional status remains controversial.To evaluate the ability of SCS to improve pain, functional status, and quality of life in the long term.We retrospectively analyzed 25 patients over a mean follow-up period of 88 months. The parameters for evaluation were visual analog scale (VAS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) and Short Form 36 (SF-36), and drug consumption. Evaluations were conducted at point of entry, 3 months, 12 months, and last follow-up at 88 months (mean).At baseline, the mean scores were VAS 8.4, ODI 70%, BDI 28, EQ-5D 0.30, and SF-36 24. In general, maximum improvement was recorded at follow-up at 3 months (VAS 4.8, ODI 45%, BDI 15, EQ-5D 0.57, and SF-36 45). At last follow-up, scores were 5.6, 50%, 19, 0.57, and 40, respectively. Despite some regression, at last follow-up benefits were maintained and found to be statistically significant (P < .001) compared with baseline. Medication usage declined. SCS did not prevent disease spread to other limbs. Best results were achieved in stage I CRPS I, patients under 40 years of age, and those receiving SCS within 1 year of disease onset.SCS improves pain, quality of life, and functional status over the long term and consequently merits early consideration in the treatment continuum.To demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the addition of bupivacaine in restoring pain control and improving quality of life and activity level in patients with chronic nonmalignant pain refractory to intrathecal opioids.Retrospective study.Outpatient clinics.Seventeen patients with inadequate pain relief while receiving intrathecal opioids alone. Interventions. The intrathecal opioid dose was held constant at 14.19 mg/day following the addition of bupivacaine. The initial bupivacaine dose was 2.08 mg/day and 4.83 mg/day at final follow up.Pain relief, activity, depression, and quality of life were measured by the Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D), and Short Form 36 (SF-36), respectively. Reduction in oral medication use, return to employment, and device-related complications were also analyzed. Outcomes were evaluated prior to pump implantation, before the addition of bupivacaine (baseline), and every 6 months thereafter.Seventeen patients were followed for 29.60 +/- 19.01 months. The average pain reduction measured by the VAS was 32.2%. The ODI improved 19.1%; BDI improved 17.9%; EQ-5D improved by 0.56; and the SF-36 showed statistical improvement in six of eight domains. Mean oral/transdermal opioid use reduced from 49.01 mg/day to 23.02 mg/day and oral non-opioid medications reduced from 2.2 classes to 1.0 class after the addition of bupivacaine. Two additional patients returned to work. No neurological sequelae resulted from adding bupivacaine.The addition of intrathecal bupivacaine restores pain control, improves activity level, quality of life, and mental health in this patient group.The aims of this study were to (i) compare the responsiveness of the EORTC QLQ-C30 cancer-specific questionnaire and the generic questionnaires EQ-5D and 15D used for economic evaluation of healthcare interventions and (ii) determine the minimal important differences (MIDs) in these questionnaires. The MID is the smallest change in a quality-of-life score considered important to patients.Between 2006 and 2008, 239 patients with multiple myeloma completed the questionnaires at inclusion (T1) and after 3 months (T2). At T2, patients were asked whether they had noticed any change in their quality of life. Responsiveness and MIDs were determined by mean score changes (T2-T1) for patients who, in the interview, stated they had improved, deteriorated, or were unchanged. Responsiveness was also assessed using standardized response means. Wilcoxon tests for pair differences were used to evaluate the statistical significance of the changes.Patients who improved had significantly (P < 0.01) higher scores at T2 in all three questionnaires. Patients who deteriorated reported lower scores at T2; however, for the 15D, the differences in score were not statistically significant. The MIDs for the QLQ-C30, EQ-5D, and 15D were 8, 0.08, and 0.03 in patients who improved and 12, 0.10 and 0.02 in patients who deteriorated, respectively.All three questionnaires showed an acceptable responsiveness in patients who improved. However, the 15D did not respond optimally in patients who deteriorate and cannot be recommended for use in patients with myeloma.To identify cutpoints reflecting Patient Acceptable Symptom State (PASS) and Minimal Clinically Important Improvement (MCII) in patient-reported multi-attribute health status classification systems and health status measurements among patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and psoriatic arthritis (PsA).We identified patients with RA, AS, and PsA from the Norwegian disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) register (NOR-DMARD). The patients (n = 4225) had started with DMARD and responded to the PASS and MCII anchoring questions at the 3-month followup examination. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curves with 80% specificity and the 75th percentile approach were used to identify PASS and MCII cutpoints in the EuroQol-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) and the Short-Form-6 Dimensions (SF-6D) indexes, but also in other patient-reported outcomes (joint pain and patient global visual analog scale and Modified Health Assessment Questionnaire).The PASS cutpoints estimated with 80% specificity were around 0.70 in EQ-5D in all diseases and around 0.65 in SF-6D. The cutpoints were around 0.65 and 0.60, respectively, when the 75th percentile approach was used. The MCII cutpoints assessed by 80% specificity varied from 0.10 to 0.19 in EQ-5D and from 0.07 to 0.10 in SF-6D.The cutpoints for PASS in EQ-5D and SF-6D indicate that PASS corresponds to a health-related quality of life that is far from perfect health. Somewhat different cutpoints were identified for both PASS and MCII with 80% specificity versus the 75th percentile method.We explored the efficacy of the opiate antagonist, naltrexone, as a treatment for pathological gambling. Treatment seeking pathological gamblers (n = 39) (according to both South Oaks Gambling Screen and a screen based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders) participated into our treatment study during 2009. The subjects were instructed to use 50 mg of naltrexone before gambling or when feeling craving towards gambling. The protocol contained one initial doctor visit with motivational brief intervention. During period that were free of gambling, the subjects were instructed to practice other healthy behavioral alternatives to gambling. The primary outcome measure was the Yale Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale adapted for Pathological Gambling. The other outcome measurements were the EQ-5D quality of life survey, the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test, and the Beck Depression Inventory. The average age of the subjects was 39 years; 80% were men. Highly significant (p < 0.01) decreases in reported obsessive-compulsive gambling and depressive symptoms and increases in the subjective quality of life developed in the study. These positive changes suggest that this simple, inexpensive treatment helps pathological gamblers. The role of naltrexone in the treatment effect, however, needs to be determined with a larger, placebo-controlled study.To estimate the clinical effectiveness of active management (AM) in general practice versus AM plus a group-based, professionally led cognitive behavioural approach (CBA) for subacute and chronic low back pain (LBP) and to measure the cost of each strategy over a period of 12 months and estimate cost-effectiveness.Pragmatic multicentred randomised controlled trial with investigator-blinded assessment of outcomes.Fifty-six general practices from seven English regions.People with subacute and chronic LBP who were experiencing symptoms that were at least moderately troublesome.Participants were randomised (in a ratio of 2:1) to receive either AM+CBA or AM alone.Primary outcomes were the Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMQ) and the Modified Von Korff Scale (MVK), which measure LBP and disability. Secondary outcomes included mental and physical health-related quality of life (Short Form 12-item health survey), health status, fear avoidance beliefs and pain self-efficacy. Cost-utility of CBA was considered from both the UK NHS perspective and a broader health-care perspective, including both NHS costs and costs of privately purchased goods and services related to LBP. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated from the five-item EuroQoL.Between April 2005 and April 2007, 701 participants were randomised: 233 to AM and 468 to AM+CBA. Of these, 420 were female. The mean age of participants was 54 years and mean baseline RMQ was 8.7. Outcome data were obtained for 85% of participants at 12 months. Benefits were seen across a range of outcome measures in favour of CBA with no evidence of group or therapist effects. CBA resulted in at least twice as much improvement as AM. Mean additional improvement in the CBA arm was 1.1 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.4 to 1.7], 1.4 (95% CI 0.7 to 2.1) and 1.3 (95% CI 0.6 to 2.1) change points in the RMQ at 3, 6 and 12 months respectively. Additional improvement in MVK pain was 6.8 (95% CI 3.5 to 10.2), 8.0 (95% CI 4.3 to 11.7) and 7.0 (95% CI 3.2 to 10.7) points, and in MVK disability was 4.3 (95% CI 0.4 to 8.2), 8.1 (95% CI 4.1 to 12.0) and 8.4 (95% CI 4.4 to 12.4) points at 3, 6 and 12 months respectively. At 12 months, 60% of the AM+CBA arm and 31% of the AM arm reported some or complete recovery. Mean cost of attending a CBA course was 187 pounds per participant with an additional benefit in QALYs of 0.099 and an additional cost of 178.06 pounds. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 1786.00 pounds. Probability of CBA being cost-effective reached 90% at about 3000 pounds and remained at that level or above; at a cost-effectiveness threshold of 20,000 pounds the CBA group had an almost 100% probability of being considered cost-effective. User perspectives on the acceptability of group treatments were sought through semi-structured interviews. Most were familiar with key messages of AM; most who had attended any group sessions had retained key messages from the sessions and two-thirds talked about a reduction in fear avoidance and changes in their behaviour. Group sessions appeared to provide reassurance, lessen isolation and enable participants to learn strategies from each other.Long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of CBA in treating subacute and chronic LBP was shown, making this intervention attractive to patients, clinicians and purchasers. Short-term (3-month) clinical effects were similar to those found in high-quality studies of other therapies and benefits were maintained and increased over the long term (12 months). Cost per QALY was about half that of competing interventions for LBP and because the intervention can be delivered by existing NHS staff following brief training, the back skills training programme could be implemented within the NHS with relative ease.Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN37807450.The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment programme.The survival rate of cervical cancer is increasing due to early diagnosis and timely treatment. As a result, the availability of a valid and reliable general HRQoL is important. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the EuroQol questionnaire (EQ-5D) in patients with cervical cancer in Taiwan.Outpatients with cervical cancer were recruited from three medical centers across Taiwan. Test-retest reliability and ceiling effect were evaluated. Construct validity including convergent and discriminate validities were examined using the EORTC QLQ C-30 (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire) and the clinical indicators of the functional performance assessment using the Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) and disease status.A total of 530 patients completed the questionnaire. The intraclass correlation coefficient for the EQ-5D index was 0.83, and the Cohen's kappa values for the EQ-5D dimensions ranged from 0.54 to 0.73. The EQ-5D index and VAS scores were higher for patients with a higher KPS score and disease-free status. The EQ-5D index was strongly correlated with all EORTC QLQ-C30 functioning scales.The EQ-5D questionnaire is reliable and valid for the assessment of health-related quality of life in patients with cervical cancer in Taiwan.The European Forsteo Observational Study was designed to examine the effectiveness of teriparatide in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis treated for up to 18 months in normal clinical practice in eight European countries. The incidence of clinical vertebral and nonvertebral fragility fractures, back pain, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL, EQ-5D) were assessed. Spontaneous reports of adverse events were collected. All 1,648 enrolled women were teriparatide treatment-naive, 91.0% of them had previously received other anti-osteoporosis drugs, and 72.8% completed the 18-month study. A total of 168 incident clinical fractures were sustained by 138 (8.8%) women (821 fractures/10,000 patient-years). A 47% decrease in the odds of fracture in the last 6-month period compared to the first 6-month period was observed (P < 0.005). Mean back pain VAS was reduced by 25.8 mm at end point (P < 0.001). Mean change from baseline in EQ-VAS was 13 mm by 18 months. The largest improvements were reported in the EQ-5D subdomains of usual activities and pain/discomfort. There were 365 adverse events spontaneously reported, of which 48.0% were considered related to teriparatide; adverse events were the reason for discontinuation for 79 (5.8%) patients. In conclusion, postmenopausal women with severe osteoporosis who were prescribed teriparatide in standard clinical practice had a significant reduction in the incidence of fragility fractures and a reduction in back pain over an 18-month treatment period. This was associated with a clinically significant improvement in HRQoL. Safety was consistent with current prescribing information. These results should be interpreted in the context of the open-label, noncontrolled design of the study.This pooled analysis of data from three phase 3 studies in patients with chronic osteoarthritis knee or low back pain evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of tapentadol prolonged release (PR; 100-250 mg twice daily) compared with placebo and oxycodone hydrochloride (HCl) controlled release (CR; 20-50 mg twice daily).Patients in each study were randomized to receive twice-daily doses of placebo, tapentadol PR (100-250 mg), or oxycodone HCl CR (20-50 mg) for a 12-week maintenance period, preceded by a 3-week titration period. Primary endpoints were change from baseline in average pain intensity (11-point numeric rating scale) at week 12 of the maintenance period and for the overall maintenance period using last observation carried forward for imputation of values missing after treatment discontinuation.A total of 2968 patients were evaluated for efficacy; 2974 patients were evaluated for safety. Compared with placebo, treatment with tapentadol PR or oxycodone CR resulted in significantly greater reductions in pain intensity from baseline at week 12 and for the overall maintenance period (all P<0.001). For both primary endpoints, the efficacy of tapentadol PR was noninferior to oxycodone CR (P<0.001), and tapentadol PR had superior gastrointestinal tolerability compared with oxycodone CR (P<0.001). Results of analyses of responders, patient global impression of change, Short Form-36 domains (except general health), and the EuroQol 5-Dimension health status index were significantly better for tapentadol PR than oxycodone CR (all P<or=0.048); these results may have been affected by the worse tolerability profile of oxycodone CR. A higher percentage of patients discontinued treatment with oxycodone CR (61.7% [616/999]) compared with tapentadol PR (43.5% [425/978]).Tapentadol PR (100-250 mg twice daily) was efficacious and provided efficacy that was similar to oxycodone HCl CR (20-50 mg twice daily) for the management of chronic osteoarthritis knee and low back pain, with a superior gastrointestinal tolerability profile and fewer treatment discontinuations.Lichen sclerosus (LS) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease. Earlier studies have shown an impaired health-related quality of life (HRQoL), but more extensive research including generic questionnaires has not been reported.To investigate, in a cross-sectional study, the HRQoL of a sample of Dutch women with LS; to compare the resulting HRQoL data with that available from other skin diseases and the general Dutch population; to explore factors that may influence the HRQoL.Female members of the Dutch LS Foundation and Support Group filled out three questionnaires electronically: the Skindex-29, the SF-12 and the EQ-5D visual analogue scale (VAS). We distinguished Skindex-29 scores into groups with 'little' (score 0-24), 'mild' (25-31), 'moderate' (32-43) and 'severe' (44-100) impact on HRQoL. We compared differences using the Mann-Whitney U-test and the Kruskal-Wallis test, and correlations using Spearman's rank correlation coefficient.A total of 262 women with LS were included. The average diagnostic delay was 4·9 (SD 7·1) years. Patients had a mean total Skindex-29 score of 38·4 (0-100, SD 17·2). Domain scores for symptoms, emotions and functioning were 46·8 (SD 19·0), 38·2 (SD 20·2) and 33·6 (SD 19·3), respectively. The SF-12 showed average PCS-12 (physical component) and MCS-12 (mental component) scores of 47·7 and 48·5, respectively. For the Dutch population these scores were 49·3 and 52·3. The mean EQ-5D VAS score was 74·1 (SD 15·4).There is a considerable delay in diagnosis for female Dutch patients with LS. The Skindex-29 domain scores showed a moderately impaired HRQoL. Women with LS reported a lower generic HRQoL than the average female Dutch population.The successful transfer of clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) into patient care depends on the appropriateness of the implementation method. This study strived for a better understanding of which intervention strategy is effective in implementing the CPG on Parkinson's disease (CPG-PD). In a cluster randomized controlled trial, we compared the impact of two different implementation strategies of the CPG-PD on health outcomes of PD patients. The primary outcome of health-related quality of life was measured by PDQ-39. The neurologists of the intervention group (IG) versus a control group (CG) received the CPG-PD with special instructions, a 4-h training and were offered personal feedback. Patients were followed over three assessment times: baseline, post-test (6 months) and follow-up (9 months). Lack of time and remuneration resulted in low study participation (32 out of 619 contacted neurologists). Multilevel modelling revealed that primary (PDQ-39) and secondary efficacy variables (EQ-5D, CGI, HADS-D, ZUF-8) of 386 patients were not affected significantly by the intervention and failed to show any significant difference between the two groups. The EQ-5D VAS scale (p = 0.0288) and the CGI-P severity scale (p = 0.0072) showed a significant worsening over time. A significant decrease of hours of dyskinesias in the IG (p = 0.007) was observed, whereas Parkinson symptoms did not change significantly between the groups. Lacking awareness of the CPG-PD seems to be no longer a barrier for its use, but it is still a major challenge to find effective implementation methods to optimise clinical outcome. Further studies are needed for a more comprehensive understanding of successful implementation strategies.The Locomotor Capabilities Index (LCI) is a validated measure of lower-limb amputees' ability to perform activities with prosthesis. We have developed the LCI Swedish version and evaluated its validity and reliability.Cross-cultural adaptation to Swedish included forward/backward translations and field testing. The Swedish LCI was then administered to 144 amputees (55 women), mean age 74 (40-93) years, attending post-rehabilitation prosthetic training. Construct validity was assessed by examining the relationship between the LCI and Timed "Up-and-Go" (TUG) test and between the LCI and EQ-5D health utility index in 2 subgroups of 40 and 20 amputees, respectively. Discriminative validity was assessed by comparing scores in different age groups and in unilateral and bilateral amputees. Test-retest reliability (1-2 weeks) was evaluated in 20 amputees (14 unilateral).The Swedish LCI showed good construct convergent validity, with high correlation with the TUG (r = -0.75) and the EQ-5D (r = 0.84), and discriminative validity, with significantly worse mean scores for older than younger and for bilateral than unilateral amputees (p < 0.01), and high internal consistency (Cronbach alpha 0.95). In test-retest reliability the intraclass correlation coefficient was 0.91 (95% CI 0.79-0.96) but for the unilateral amputees was 0.83 (95% CI 0.56-0.94). Ceiling effect occurred in 23%.The Swedish version of the LCI demonstrated good validity and internal consistency in adult amputees. Test-retest reliability in a small subsample appears to be acceptable. The high ceiling effect of the LCI may imply that it would be most useful in assessing amputees with low to moderate functional abilities.To describe functioning and health of individuals with traumatic brain injury (TBI) based on the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF).A cross-sectional, prospective study was conducted in a neurorehabilitation hospital. Data collection included socio-demographic factors, single interviews based on the extended ICF Checklist 2.1 for TBI, patient ratings on general health and functioning status, WHOQoL, EQ5D and the Comorbidity Questionnaire.103 patients (81%males) were included in the study. The mean of age was 34 yrs. 24% were inpatients whereas 76% were outpatients. 130 out of 150 categories (87%) of the extended checklist were relevant in > 10% of patients. Differences in functioning and disability between patients in the shorter versus long term situation were noted to be predominantly in the ICF domains of Activities and Participation as well as in Body Functions. Correlations between EQ5D and ICF-based data collections were all p < 0.01.This study identified the most common problems in patients with TBI receiving Neurorehabilitation services based on the ICF. Results emphasize the need to describe disability and rehabilitation standards from a comprehensive perspective that not only includes Body Functions and Structures but also the ICF domains of Activities and Participation and Environmental factors.As quality-adjusted life years have become the standard metric in health economic evaluations, mapping health-profile or disease-specific measures onto preference-based measures to obtain quality-adjusted life years has become a solution when health utilities are not directly available. However, current mapping methods are limited due to their predictive validity, reliability, and/or other methodological issues.We employ probability theory together with a graphical model, called a Bayesian network, to convert health-profile measures into preference-based measures and to compare the results to those estimated with current mapping methods.A sample of 19,678 adults who completed both the 12-item Short Form Health Survey (SF-12v2) and EuroQoL 5D (EQ-5D) questionnaires from the 2003 Medical Expenditure Panel Survey was split into training and validation sets. Bayesian networks were constructed to explore the probabilistic relationships between each EQ-5D domain and 12 items of the SF-12v2. The EQ-5D utility scores were estimated on the basis of the predicted probability of each response level of the 5 EQ-5D domains obtained from the Bayesian inference process using the following methods: Monte Carlo simulation, expected utility, and most-likely probability. Results were then compared with current mapping methods including multinomial logistic regression, ordinary least squares, and censored least absolute deviations.The Bayesian networks consistently outperformed other mapping models in the overall sample (mean absolute error=0.077, mean square error=0.013, and R overall=0.802), in different age groups, number of chronic conditions, and ranges of the EQ-5D index.Bayesian networks provide a new robust and natural approach to map health status responses into health utility measures for health economic evaluations.Long-term clinical outcomes have been similar for endovascular and open repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), increasing the importance of comparing cost-effectiveness.We compared data to two years from a multicenter randomized trial of 881 patients. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated from EQ-5D questionnaires. Healthcare utilization data were obtained from patients and from national VA and Medicare sources. VA costs were obtained using methods previously developed by the VA Health Economics Resource Center. Costs for non-VA care were determined from Medicare or billing data.Mean life-years were 1.78 in the endovascular and 1.74 in the open repair group (P = 0.29), and mean QALYs were 1.462 in the endovascular and 1.461 in the open group (P = 0.78). Although graft costs were higher in the endovascular group ($14,052 vs. $1363; P < 0.001), length of stay was shorter (5.0 vs. 10.5 days; P < 0.001), resulting in lower cost of AAA repair hospitalization in the endovascular group ($37,068 vs. $42,970; P = 0.04). Costs remained lower after 2 years in the endovascular group but the difference was no longer significant (-$5019; 95% CI: -$16,720 to $4928; P = 0.35). The probability that endovascular repair was both more effective and less costly was 70.9% for life-years and 51.4% for QALYs.Endovascular repair is a cost-effective alternative to open repair in the US VA healthcare system for at least the first two years.This paper aims to examine the association between painful physical symptoms (PPS) and major depressive disorder (MDD) in a naturalistic clinical practice setting within a Korean population.Patients with acute MDD that joined a multicountry, observational, three-month study in six Asian countries and regions were classified as PPS+ (mean score >/=2) and PPS- (mean score <2) using the modified Somatic Symptom Inventory. In this analysis, we report the results from the Korean subset, where depression severity was assessed using the Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) scale and 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD(17)). Pain severity was measured using a visual analogue scale (VAS), while the EuroQoL (EQ-5D) assessed patient well-being.Of 198 patients, 45.96% (91/198) of patients were classified as PPS+, of which 78.02% (71/91) were women. PPS+ patients had significantly more severe depression at baseline {CGI-S score, mean [standard deviation (SD)], PPS+: 5.09 [0.79]; PPS-: 4.63 [0.76]; p<0.001; HAMD(17) total score, mean [SD], PPS+: 24.34 [5.24]; PPS-: 20.76 [5.12]; p<0.001} and poorer quality of life [EQ-5D overall health state, mean (SD), PPS+: 39.37 (20.52); PPS-: 51.27 [20.78]; p<0.001] than PPS- patients. Both groups improved significantly (p<0.001) in depression and pain severity outcomes, as well as quality of life by endpoint, but no significant within-group baseline-to-endpoint change wase observed.The frequency of PPS was common in Korean patients with MDD, and was associated with more severe depression, poorer quality of life, and a trend towards poorer clinical outcome.This study establishes the South Korean population-based preference weights for EQ-5D based on values elicited from a representative national sample using the time trade-off (TTO) method.The data for this paper came from a South Korean EQ-5D valuation study where 1307 representative respondents were invited to participate and a total of 101 health states defined by the EQ-5D descriptive system were directly valued. Both aggregate and individual level modeling were conducted to generate values for all 243 health states defined by EQ-5D. Various regression techniques and model specifications were also examined in order to produce the best fit model. Final model selection was based on minimizing the difference between the observed and estimated value for each health state.The N3 model yielded the best fit for the observed TTO value at the aggregate level. It had a mean absolute error of 0.029 and only 15 predictions out of 101 had errors exceeding 0.05 in absolute magnitude.The study successfully establishes South Korean population-based preference weights for the EQ-5D. The value set derived here is based on a representative population sample, limiting the interpolation space and possessing better model performance. Thus, this EQ-5D value set should be given preference for use with the South Korean population.To evaluate the psychometric attributes of the Spanish version of the Quality of Life-Alzheimer's Disease Scale (QoL-AD) in institutionalized patients and family caregivers in Spain.101 patients (88.1% women; mean age, 83.2  ±  6.3) with Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 82) and mixed dementia (n = 19) and their closest family caregivers. Patient-related variables included severity of dementia, cognitive status, perceived general health, quality of life, behavior, apathy, depression, and functional status. QoL-AD acceptability, reliability, and construct validity were analyzed.The mean Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was 7.2  ±  6.1 and Global Deterioration Scale was: stage four (4%); five (21.2%); six (34.3%); and seven (40.4%). Both, QoL-AD patient version (QoL-ADp) (n = 40; MMSE = 12.0  ±  4.5) and QoL-AD caregiver version (QoL-ADc) (n = 101) lacked significant floor and ceiling effects and the Cronbach α index was 0.90 and 0.86, respectively. The corrected item-total correlation was 0.11-0.68 (QoL-ADc) and 0.28-0.84 (QoL-ADp). Stability was satisfactory for QoL-ADp (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]=0.83) but low for QoL-ADc (ICC = 0.51); the standard error of measurement was 2.72 and 4.69. Construct validity was moderate/high for QoL-ADc (QUALID=-0.43; EQ-5D = 0.65), but lower for QoL-ADp. No significant correlations were observed between QoL-ADp and patient variables or QoL-ADc. A low to high association (r = 0.18-0.55) was obtained between QoL-ADc and patient-related measures of neuropsychiatric, function, and cognitive status.Differences in their psychometric attributes, and discrepancy between them, were found for QoL-ADp and QoL-ADc. In patients with AD and advanced dementia, the QoL perceived by the patient could be based on a construct that is different from the traditional QoL construct.There is major controversy surrounding the use of hemiarthroplasty as compared with total shoulder arthroplasty for glenohumeral osteoarthritis, and long-term clinical outcomes of hemiarthroplasty are lacking.Of a cohort of thirty patients (thirty-one shoulders) who were treated with hemiarthroplasty for glenohumeral osteoarthritis and followed longitudinally at our institution, twenty-five were available for long-term follow-up; five died, and one refused to participate. Three of the five patients who died had revision arthroplasty before death, and the data from those three were therefore included in the final follow-up (final follow-up data therefore included twenty-seven patients and twenty-eight shoulders). Follow-up through phone conversations and postal mail surveys included the following: Short Form-36, American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) shoulder outcome score, EuroQol, Simple Shoulder Test, modified Neer Score, and a unique, validated self-administered range-of-motion questionnaire. Correlations between clinical outcome and age, type of glenoid wear, and cause of osteoarthritis were determined.The average follow-up was 17.2 years (range, thirteen to twenty-one years). There were eight revisions (three of fifteen shoulders with concentric glenoids, and five of sixteen shoulders with eccentric glenoids). For those shoulders not revised, the average ASES score was 70.54 (range, 36.67 to 91.67). Overall, active shoulder forward elevation and external rotation with the arm at 90° of abduction increased from 104° preoperatively to 141.8° (range, 45° to 180°) and 20.7° to 61.0° (range, 30° to 90°), respectively (p &lt; 0.05), at the time of final follow-up. Of those who required revision arthroplasty, the average patient age at the time of the index procedure was 51.0 years (range, twenty-six to eighty-one years), while those not requiring revision averaged 57.1 years (range, twenty-seven to sixty-three years). The overall Neer satisfaction rating was 25%. The average Neer score and Neer rating for unrevised cases were significantly higher for concentric glenoid wear compared with eccentric glenoid wear (p = 0.015 and p = 0.001, respectively). Patients who had concentric glenoid wear had higher EuroQol scores (p = 0.020). The average Neer scores were 65.29 (range, forty-seven to seventy-eight) for primary osteoarthritis and 54.46 (range, forty to seventy-seven) for secondary osteoarthritis (p = 0.036).Only 25% of patients with glenohumeral osteoarthritis treated with shoulder hemiarthroplasty are satisfied with their outcome at an average of seventeen years after the operation. Patients with concentric glenoid wear and primary osteoarthritis have better outcomes than those with eccentric glenoid wear and secondary osteoarthritis do, but patients in both groups experienced deterioration of results over time.Therapeutic Level IV. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.Painful physical symptoms (PPS) may present as a component of major depressive disorder (MDD). Their effect in Chinese patients has not been investigated. This analysis reports the changes in disease severity, treatment patterns, quality of life and outcomes in a Chinese cohort according to the presence (PPS+) or absence (PPS-) of painful physical symptoms.A subgroup of Chinese patients from a large observational 3-month study of patients from Asian countries and regions of China were classified using the modified Somatic Symptom Inventory (SSI) as PPS+ (mean score >or= 2) or PPS- (mean score < 2). Depression severity was assessed with the Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) scale and 17-item Hamilton depression rating scale (HAMD(17)). Pain severity was measured using a visual analogue scale (VAS), while the EuroQoL (EQ-5D) assessed patient well-being. Antidepressants were compared with regard to their efficacy.Of the 299 Chinese patients enrolled in the study, 105 were classified as PPS+ (73/105, 70% women). At baseline, PPS+ patients reported greater pain severity (VAS, mean (SD): 49.56 (26.49) vs. 16.60 (20.99) for PPS-, P < 0.01), were more depressed (HAMD(17), mean (SD): 25.32 (5.47) vs. 23.33 (5.24) for PPS-, P = 0.002) and had poorer quality of life (EQ-5D Health State, mean (SD): 38.48 (22.38) vs. 49.57 (18.54) for PPS-, P < 0.001). PPS+ patients showed less overall improvement in depressive symptom severity (HAMD(17), change from baseline (95%CI): -17.38 (-18.65, -16.12) vs. -19.20 (-20.05, -18.35) for PPS-, P = 0.032; CGI-S, change from baseline (95%CI): -2.85 (-3.11, -2.58) vs. -3.20 (-3.38, -3.02) for PPS-, P = 0.044).PPS were less frequent than expected compared with previous studies of Asian populations. PPS+ were associated with greater MDD severity and less improvement than PPS- when antidepressants were given.The aim of this study was to compare three health utility instruments (15D, EQ-5D, SF-6D) and a rating scale for health (EQ-Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)) and to investigate their relationship to clinical parameters in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).Data were collected from 1041 patients with RA. Agreement between the instruments was assessed with Bland-Altman plots. Linear regression models were fitted for the different instruments and Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) scores, age, gender, patient global, disease duration and educational level. Differences in utility scores across levels of global health and disability, were investigated as well as correlations with disease-specific health status measures.The score range in the 1041 patients with RA was 0.41-1.0 for 15D, -0.48 to 1.0 for EQ-5D, 0.0-1.0 for EQ-VAS and 0.30-1.0 for SF-6D, with a bimodal distribution for EQ-5D. Bland-Altman plots indicated poor agreement between EQ-5D and SF-6D/15D and moderate agreement between SF-6D and 15D. Utility scores were correlated with disease-specific measures, pain and fatigue (r>0.60). Mean utilities ranged from 0.30 (EQ-5D) to 0.69 (15D) in patients rating their own health as poor. When correcting for a non-linear relationship between HAQ and EQ-5D/SF-6D in linear regression models, the estimated utilities had non-overlying CI for HAQ values >1.4.Diverging scores were observed across utility instruments, especially in patients with high HAQ scores. The choice of utility instrument may have an impact on the results of cost-utility analyses, with large hypothetical differences in price per quality-adjusted life year.To compare health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to that of the general population and to investigate the association with disease activity, focusing on different clinical remission criteria.EQ-5D data from 3156 patients with RA from 11 Danish centers were compared with Danish EQ-5D population norms (n = 16,136). The Disease Activity Score (DAS28) and the Clinical Disease Activity Index score (CDAI) were used as definitions of disease activity and clinical remission. The score difference (DeltaEQ-5D) was calculated in each patient as the difference from the age and sex-matched general population and adjusted for age, marital status, education, body mass index, smoking, exercise habits, disease duration, IgM-rheumatoid factor status, joint surgery, extraarticular features, treatment, and comorbidity in multiple linear regression models.37% vs 22% fulfilled the DAS28 and CDAI remission criteria, respectively. The DeltaEQ-5D values for women/men in clinical remission were DAS28 0.05/0.06 vs CDAI 0.01/0.02; low disease activity: DAS28 0.12/0.13 vs CDAI 0.11/0.14; moderate disease activity: DAS28 0.18/0.20 vs CDAI 0.20/0.23; and high disease activity: DAS28 0.38/0.28 vs CDAI 0.33/0.26. Adjusting for confounders reduced the DeltaEQ-5D values between 0 and 0.04 units.Patients with RA had worse EQ-5D scores than the general population, and the difference was strongly associated with disease activity. The EQ-5D score for patients in clinical remission approached that of the general population, suggesting that strict treatment goals are critical in order to achieve near-normal HRQOL in patients with RA.High daily intensive care unit (ICU) costs are associated with the use of mechanical ventilation (MV) to treat acute respiratory failure (ARF), and assessment of quality of life (QOL) after critical illness and cost-effectiveness analyses are warranted.Nationwide, prospective multicentre observational study in 25 Finnish ICUs. During an eight-week study period 958 consecutive adult ICU patients were treated with ventilatory support over 6 hours. Of those 958, 619 (64.6%) survived one year, of whom 288 (46.5%) answered the quality of life questionnaire (EQ-5D). We calculated EQ-5D index and predicted lifetime quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained using the age- and sex-matched life expectancy for survivors after one year. For expired patients the exact lifetime was used. We divided all hospital costs for all ARF patients by the number of hospital survivors, and by all predicted lifetime QALYs. We also adjusted for those who died before one year and for those with missing QOL to be able to estimate the total QALYs.One-year mortality was 35% (95% CI 32 to 38%). For the 288 respondents median [IQR] EQ-5D index after one year was lower than that of the age- and sex-matched general population 0.70 [0.45 to 0.89] vs. 0.84 [0.81 to 0.88]. For these 288, the mean (SD) predicted lifetime QALYs was 15.4 (13.3). After adjustment for missing QOL the mean predicted lifetime (SD) QALYs was 11.3 (13.0) for all the 958 ARF patients. The mean estimated costs were 20.739 euro per hospital survivor, and mean predicted lifetime cost-utility for all ARF patients was 1391 euro per QALY.Despite lower health-related QOL compared to reference values, our result suggests that cost per hospital survivor and lifetime cost-utility remain reasonable regardless of age, disease severity, and type or duration of ventilation support in patients with ARF.Recent advances in monoclonal antibody therapies offer the prospect of the prevention or amelioration of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). The present study was designed to capture UK (English and Scottish) preference weights for the process of undergoing infusion therapy and the likely outcomes of treatment for children (8-12 years), adolescents (13-17 years), and adults.Vignette descriptions of T1DM health states (describing infusion therapy and reduced insulin need) were constructed based on qualitative interviews with people with type 1 diabetes, clinicians and findings from a literature review. Utilities were elicited for each health state using the standard gamble interview from the general public, adults with diabetes, and parents of children with diabetes. Participants also completed other outcome measures-EQ-5D, Pediatric Quality-of-Life Inventory, and Hyperglycemic Fear Survey. Mixed model analyses were used to estimate the influence on utility of different participant characteristics.Self-report questionnaires indicated the nature and degree of impact of T1DM on adults', adolescents', and children's quality of life, with adolescents reporting the lowest health-related quality-of-life profile of all groups. The mixed model analysis indicated that each health state was a significant predictor of utility and the T1DM participants gave significantly higher utilities compared with the general public (P = 0.02).The general public and people with diabetes (or parents of children with diabetes) all place significant value on reducing the need for insulin injections; also, all recognize the disutility of undergoing infusion cycles. These values are suitable for supporting estimates of cost-effectiveness of infusion therapies in T1DM.To compare vision function and self-reported quality of life (QoL) in patients with diabetic macular edema (DME) treated with intravitreous pegaptanib 0.3 mg or sham injection.This randomized (1:1), controlled, multicenter trial included subjects with DME (center point thickness on OCT, ≥ 250 μm) and visual acuity (VA) ≤ 65 letters and ≥ 35 letters. In year 1, pegaptanib or sham was administered every 6 weeks with focal/grid photocoagulation at investigator discretion after week 18. Subjects received injections as often as every 6 weeks per pre-specified criteria in year 2. Primary efficacy endpoint: proportion gaining ≥10 letters of VA from baseline to week 54. Change in QoL from baseline to weeks 54 and 102 was assessed with the 25-item National Eye Institute-Visual Function Questionnaire (NEI-VFQ 25) and the EQ-5D.One hundred thirty-three pegaptanib- and 127 sham-treated subjects were in the year 1 intent-to-treat population. From baseline to week 54, ≥ 10 letter gains seen in 49 (36.8%) pegaptanib- and 25 (19.7%) sham-treated subjects (odds ratio [95% CI]: 2.38 [1.32-4.30]; P = 0.0047). At 2 years, the VA trend favored pegaptanib. The NEI-VFQ 25 domains of Near Vision, Distance Vision, and Social Functioning (week 54) and Distance Vision, Social Functioning, Mental Health, and Composite Score (week 102) demonstrated clinically meaningful (>5-point between-group difference) and statistically significant (P < 0.05) benefits favoring pegaptanib. No significant difference in the mean change in generic EQ-5D-weighted utility scores was seen.The VA improvement from pegaptanib treatment versus sham is reflected by improved vision-related QoL as reported by the DME patient (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00605280).Cost-of-illness analysis is the main method of providing an overall vision of the economic impact of a disease. Such studies have been used to set priorities for healthcare policies and inform resource allocation. The aim of this study was to determine the economic burden and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in the first, second and third years after surviving a stroke in the Canary Islands, Spain.Cross-sectional, retrospective study of 448 patients with stroke based on ICD 9 discharge codes, who received outpatient care at five hospitals. The study was approved by the Research Ethics Committee of Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria University Hospital. Data on demographic characteristics, health resource utilization, informal care, labor productivity losses and HRQOL were collected from the hospital admissions databases and questionnaires completed by stroke patients or their caregivers. Labor productivity losses were calculated from physical units and converted into monetary units with a human capital-based method. HRQOL was measured with the EuroQol EQ-5D questionnaire. Healthcare costs, productivity losses and informal care costs were analyzed with log-normal, probit and ordered probit multivariate models.The average cost for each stroke survivor was €17 618 in the first, €14 453 in the second and €12 924 in the third year after the stroke; the reference year for unit prices was 2004. The largest expenditures in the first year were informal care and hospitalizations; in the second and third years the main costs were for informal care, productivity losses and medication. Mean EQ-5D index scores for stroke survivors were 0.50 for the first, 0.47 for the second and 0.46 for the third year, and mean EQ-5D visual analog scale scores were 56, 52 and 55, respectively.The main strengths of this study lie in our bottom-up-approach to costing, and in the evaluation of stroke survivors from a broad perspective (societal costs) in the first, second and third years after surviving the stroke. This type of analysis is rare in the Spanish context. We conclude that stroke incurs considerable societal costs among survivors to three years and there is substantial deterioration in HRQOL.The objective was to determine the economic burden, as well as the impact on HRQOL for people with HIV/AIDS in Spain in 2003.A cross-sectional study of 572 people with HIV were recruited from outpatient clinics in the Canary Islands, Spain. Demographic, health resources utilization, indirect costs and quality of life data were collected through medical records and questionnaires filled out by people with HIV. HRQOL was measured with two generic questionnaires: SF-36 and EQ-5D.In 2003 annual costs of caring for patients with asymptomatic HIV, symptomatic HIV and AIDS were euro10,351, euro14,489 and euro15,750, respectively. The HRQOL with the EQ-5D was 0.78. SF-36 summary results for physical and mental health were 48.30 and 38.80, respectively.HIV/AIDS represent a high economic impact from society point of view. the structure of health care costs have changed due to these new drugs, increasing the weight of pharmaceutical treatment over total costs and decreasing the importance of inpatient care costs. In spite of the therapeutic improvements, labour losses/indirect costs still represent a high cost. Costs and HRQOL were strongly associated with severity. Although the latest drug developments have not yet been able to find the definitive cure, they have allowed an improvement in expectancy of life and in the HRQOL of the patients.We applied our previously developed estimation equation to predict EQ-5D index scores from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Healthy Days measures for the New York City (NYC) adult population from 1995 to 2006 and compared these trends over time with the US general population. Such scores enabled us to examine the burden of disease attributable to smoking and overweight/obesity at both the local and national levels. We employed the estimation equation to the 1993-2007 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) data to obtain EQ-5D index scores for all survey respondents based on their age, self-rated health status, and overall number of unhealthy days. With the combination of mortality data, we calculated trends of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), life expectancy (LE), and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) as well as the percent of QALYs and QALE lost contributed by smoking and overweight/obesity. Mean EQ-5D index scores for NYC adults decreased from 0.874 to 0.852 but, more recently, have increased to 0.869. The LE of an 18-year-old living in NYC increased 4.7 years and QALE increased 2.6 years. The contribution of smoking to the proportion of QALYs lost decreased from 6.7% to 3.5%, while the contribution of overweight/obesity to the proportion of QALYs lost increased from 4.5% to 16.9%. The proportion of QALEs lost due to smoking decreased from 5.5% to 4.5%, while the proportion of QALEs lost due to overweight/obesity increased from 3.5% to 11.8%. Because the Healthy Days measures have been included in the BRFSS since 1993, translating Healthy Days Measures to a preference-based measure is a useful method for longitudinal tracking of population health at the local, state, and national level.To determine the prevalence of joint and nail symptoms, impact of these symptoms on health-related quality of life (HR-QoL), and the effects of etanercept on them in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis.In CRYSTEL, patients with psoriasis received etanercept continuously (n = 357) or as paused therapy (n = 363) for 54 weeks. In post hoc analyses, baseline characteristics and after-treatment changes were evaluated in patients with baseline joint pain or nail psoriasis, pooling across treatment groups. Assessments of symptom severity and HR-QoL included the Subject Global Assessment question on joint pain, NAPSI, DLQI and EQ-5D.Of 711 patients, 64% reported joint pain and 79% nail psoriasis at baseline. Patients with baseline joint pain or nail psoriasis had significantly worse HR-QoL than unaffected patients. Mean baseline differences between patients with and without joint pain in DLQI (3.3), EQ-5D utility (0.2), and EQ-5D VAS (7.3) were clinically meaningful. In patients with nail psoriasis, a clinically meaningful difference in EQ-5D VAS (5.0) was seen. Etanercept significantly improved symptom severity and HR-QoL. Patients with joint pain had improvements of 47%, 61%, 29%, and 23% in mean joint pain score, DLQI, EQ-5D utility, and EQ-5D VAS, respectively, at Week 54. Patients with nail psoriasis had improvements of 51%, 63%, and 24% in NAPSI, DLQI, and EQ-5D VAS.In this study of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, joint and nail symptoms were prevalent and patients with these symptoms had significantly greater HR-QoL impairment at baseline than unaffected patients. Etanercept provided significant improvement in symptom severity and HR-QoL.To assess the measurement equivalence of an interactive voice response (IVR) version of the EQ-5D with the original paper version.Subjects were randomly assigned to: 1) paper then IVR, or 2) IVR then paper and asked to complete the questionnaire two days apart. The analyses tested mean differences (repeated measures analysis of variance) and reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]). Equivalence of the means was established if the 95% confidence interval (CI) of the mean difference was within the minimally important difference interval: -0.035 to 0.035 for the EQ-5D index and -3 to 3 for the visual analog scale (EQ VAS). ICC adequacy was tested by comparing the ICC 95% lower CI with a critical value of 0.70.The analyses included 113 subjects for the index and 109 subjects for the EQ VAS. For the index, the adjusted means of the paper and IVR versions were 0.789 ± 0.016 and 0.798 ± 0. 017, respectively. The 95% CI of the mean difference was -0.024 to 0.006, within the equivalence interval. The ICC was 0.894 (95% lower CI 0.857), significantly greater than 0.70. For the EQ VAS, the adjusted means were 71.94 ± 1.87 for paper and 74.63 ± 1.79 for IVR. The 95% CI of the mean difference was -4.347 to -1.049, partially within the equivalence interval. The ICC was 0.887 (95% lower CI 0.840), significantly greater than 0.70.The results provide evidence that the EQ-5D scores on the IVR version were sufficiently equivalent to those obtained on the paper version.The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the validity of the EQ-5D in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) in Singapore.In a cross-sectional survey, patients with PD completed English or Chinese version of the EQ-5D, the 8-item Parkinson's disease questionnaire (PDQ-8), and questions assessing socio-demographic and health characteristics. Clinical data were retrieved from patients' medical records. The validity of the EQ-5D was assessed by testing a-priori hypotheses relating the EQ-5D to the PDQ-8 and clinical data.Two hundred and eight PD patients (English speaking: 135) participated in the study. Spearman correlation coefficients between the EQ-5D and PDQ-8 ranged from 0.25 to 0.75 for English-speaking patients and from 0.16 to 0.67 for Chinese-speaking patients. By and large, the EQ-5D scores were weakly or moderately correlated with Hoehn and Yahr stage (correlation coefficients: 0.05 to 0.43), Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living score (correlation coefficients: 0.10 to 0.60), and duration of PD (correlation coefficients: 0.16 to 0.43). The EQ-5D index scores for patients with dyskinesia or "wearing off" periods were significantly lower than those without these problems. The EQ-5D Visual Analog Scale (EQ-VAS) scores also differed for English-speaking patients with deferring dyskinesia, "wearing off" periods, or health transition status; however, such differences were not observed in patients who completed the survey in Chinese.The EQ-5D questionnaire appears valid for measuring quality of life in patients with PD in Singapore. However, the validity of EQ-VAS in Chinese-speaking patients with PD should be further assessed.The purpose of this study was to evaluate the responsiveness of the EQ-5D and the Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire (PDQ-8) to deterioration in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).HRQoL and clinical data collected from 31 patients with PD (male: 74.2%, mean age: 61 years) who were surveyed with the EQ-5D and the PDQ-8 questionnaires in 2002 and 2006/2007 were analyzed. Responsiveness of the EQ-5D, PDQ-8, and Hoehn and Yahr (H&Y) staging were assessed according to Cohen's effect size (ES) and standardized response mean (SRM).The mean (standard deviation) EQ-5D index and PDQ-8 summary index (PDQ-8SI) scores were 0.76 (0.23) and 17.7 (14.2) at baseline and 0.52 (0.33) and 35.1 (17.4) at year four. Based on both ES and SRM indices, the rank order of responsiveness of the studied measures, from high to low, was PDQ-8SI (ES = 1.22), EQ-5D index score (ES = 1.06), H&Y score (ES = 0.82), and the EQ-VAS score (ES = 0.24).Both the EQ-5D and PDQ-8 are responsive to changes in health burden of the Parkinson's disease over a 4-year period.To explore whether variations in the EQ-5D, Health Utilities Index (HUI) Mark II (HUI2), and HUI Mark III (HUI3) index scores were associated with the survey language (Spanish vs. English) in the US Valuation of the EQ-5D Health States study.The EQ-5D, HUI2, and HUI3 index scores were compared across three language/ethnic groups (i.e., non-Hispanics surveyed in English [NHE], Hispanics surveyed in English [HE], and Hispanics surveyed in Spanish [HS]) using multiple regression models.Of the 4,033 respondents, 568 elected to be surveyed in Spanish. After controlling for socioeconomic and health-related variables, the mean difference (standard error) in EQ-5D, HUI2, and HUI3 index scores between HS and NHE were 0.014 (0.011), 0.050 (0.012), and 0.071 (0.020), respectively. After controlling for potential confounding variables, HS were less likely than NHE to report problems/disabilities in HUI2/3 health attributes of vision, speech, self-care, emotion, pain, and cognition (range of odds ratios: 0.31-0.45, P < 0.01 for all). No important differences were found in EQ-5D dimensions between any groups or in any of the index scores between HE and NHE.Health researchers studying health status of culturally diverse populations should be aware that different preference-based health indices may lead to different results.To estimate minimally important differences (MIDs) for the EQ-5D, Health Utilities Index Mark II (HUI2), HUI3, and SF-6D health index scores using health-state transitions defined by each instrument's multiattribute health classification (MAHC) system.We assume that changes in preference scores associated with the smallest health transitions defined by an MAHC system are minimally important. Any transitions between 2 health states defined by an MAHC system which differ in only one health dimension or attribute and by only one functional level are considered "smallest health transitions." Thus, each such health transition provides 1 MID estimate. The MID for each of the 4 instruments was estimated using all the hypothetical smallest health transitions defined by its MAHC system.Based on our definitions, the total number of smallest health transitions was 405 for the EQ-5D, 127,600 for the HUI2, 6,382,800 for the HUI3, and 86,700 for the SF-6D. The mean (standard deviation) MID estimate was 0.040 (0.026) for the EQ-5D (US algorithm), 0.082 (0.032) for the EQ-5D (UK algorithm), 0.045 (0.039) for the HUI2, 0.032 (0.027) for the HUI3, and 0.027 (0.028) for the SF-6D. The effect sizes of these MID estimates ranged from 0.11 to 0.37. These MID estimates are quite comparable to published values estimated from empirical data using anchor-based methods.It is possible to use health transitions defined by the MAHC system to estimate the MIDs for preference-based health index scores. This study provides new information regarding MID estimates for the 4 health indices examined.To explore the impact of applying different non-standardized analytical choices for quality of life measurement to obtain quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). In addition to more widely discussed issues such as the choice of instrument (e.g. EQ-5D or SF-6D?) researchers must also choose between different recall periods, scoring algorithms and interpolations between points of measurement.A prospective survey was made among 114 Belgian patients with acute hepatitis A illness. Using non-parametric tests and generalized linear models (GLM's), we compared four different methods to estimate QALY losses, two based on the EQ-5D (administered during the period of illness without recall period) and two based on the SF-6D (administered after illness with 4 weeks recall period).We found statistically significant differences between all methods, with the non-parametric SF-6D-based method yielding the highest median QALY impact (0.032 QALYs). This is more than five times as high as the EQ-5D-based method with linear health improvement, which yields the lowest median QALY impact (0.006 QALYs).Economic evaluations of health care technologies predominantly use QALYs to quantify health benefits. Non-standardised analytical choices can have a decision-changing impact on cost-effectiveness results, particularly if morbidity takes up a substantial part of the total QALY loss. Yet these choices are rarely subjected to sensitivity analysis. Researchers and decision makers should be aware of the influence of these somewhat arbitrary choices on their results.Resurfacing of the patella during primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is often recommended based on higher revision rates in non-resurfaced knees. As many of these revisions are insertions of a patella component due to pain, and since only patients with a non-resurfaced patella have the option of secondary resurfacing, we do not really know whether these patients have more pain and poorer function. The main purpose of the present paper was therefore to assess pain and function at least 2 years after surgery for unrevised primary non-resurfaced and resurfaced TKA, and secondary among prosthesis brands.Information needed to calculate subscales from the knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (KOOS) was collected in a questionnaire given to 972 osteoarthritis patients with intact primary TKAs that had been reported to the Norwegian Arthroplasty Register. Pain and satisfaction on visual analog scales and improvement in EQ-5D index score DeltaEQ-5D) were also used as outcomes. Outcomes were measured on a scale from 0 to 100 units (worst to best). To estimate differences in mean scores, we used multiple linear regression with adjustment for possible confounders.We did not observe any differences between resurfacing and non-resurfacing in any outcome, with estimated differences of <or= 1.4 units and p-values of > 0.4. There was, however, a tendency of better results for the NexGen implant as compared to the reference brand AGC for symptoms (difference = 4.9, p = 0.05), pain (VAS) (difference = 8.3, p = 0.004), and satisfaction (VAS) (difference = 7.9, p = 0.02). However, none of these differences reached the stated level of minimal perceptible clinical difference.Resurfacing of the patella has no clinical effect on pain and function after TKA. Differences between the brands investigated were small and they were assumed to be of minor importance.Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty has received renewed interest; however, its short-term advantages over total knee arthroplasty should be weighed against a higher risk of reoperation. Information regarding pain and function after unicompartmental and total knee arthroplasty is therefore needed.Patient-reported data regarding pain and function were collected, at least two years postoperatively and by way of postal questionnaire, from 1344 patients who were listed on the Norwegian Arthroplasty Register as having had an unrevised primary total knee arthroplasty (972 patients) or a unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (372 patients) for the treatment of arthritis. Outcomes were assessed (with a score of zero indicating the worst possible outcome and a score of 100 indicating the best possible outcome) with use of the five subscales from the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score, the scores from visual analog scales regarding degree of pain and satisfaction with the surgery, and the change in index score (from preoperative to postoperative) on the EuroQol-5D health-related quality-of-life instrument. We also used all forty-two questions from the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score as outcome measures. To be regarded as clinically significant, the differences needed to be eight units for the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score outcomes, ten units for the pain and satisfaction scales, and 0.4 unit for the detailed Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score questions.Unicompartmental knee implants performed better than total knee implants on the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome subscales for "Symptoms" (adjusted mean difference, 2.7; p = 0.04), "Function in Daily Living" (adjusted mean difference, 4.1; p = 0.01), and "Function in Sport and Recreation" (adjusted mean difference, 5.4; p = 0.006). Of the forty-two analyses of the detailed questions, four differences were significant. These differences were in favor of unicompartmental knee arthroplasty, but only the question "Can you bend your knee fully?" reached the level of clinical significance.We found only small or no differences in pain and function between the scores, at least two years following surgery, of patients who underwent unicompartmental knee arthroplasty and those of patients who underwent total knee arthroplasty; however, patients with unicompartmental knee implants had fewer problems with activities that involved bending the knee.Work disability is a serious consequence of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We conducted a 6-month, prospective randomized controlled trial comparing assessments of function, work, coping, and disease activity in employed patients with RA receiving occupational therapy intervention versus usual care.Employed patients with RA with increased perceived work disability risk were identified by the RA Work Instability Scale (WIS; score >or=10). Patients were stratified into medium- (score >or=10 and <17) and high-risk (>or=17) groups, then randomized into occupational therapy or usual care groups. Assessments were conducted at baseline and 6 months. The primary outcome was the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM), a standardized patient self-report of function. Other outcomes included the disability index (DI) of the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ); Disease Activity Score in 28 joints (DAS28); RA WIS; EuroQol Index; visual analog scales (VAS) for pain, work satisfaction, and work performance; and days missed/month. Independent sample t-tests and Mann-Whitney U tests were used.We recruited 32 employed patients with RA. At baseline the groups were well matched. At 6 months the improvement in the occupational therapy group was significantly greater than that in the usual care group for all functional outcomes (COPM performance P < 0.001, COPM satisfaction P < 0.001, HAQ DI P = 0.02) and most work outcomes (RA WIS [P = 0.04], VAS work satisfaction [P < 0.001], VAS work performance [P = 0.01]). Additionally, Arthritis Helplessness Index (P = 0.02), Arthritis Impact Measurement Scales II pain subscale (P = 0.03), VAS pain (P = 0.007), EuroQol Index (P = 0.02), EuroQol global (P = 0.02), and DAS28 (P = 0.03) scores significantly improved.Targeted, comprehensive occupational therapy intervention improves functional and work-related outcomes in employed RA patients at risk of work disability.Expressing the outcomes of treatment in quality-adjusted life years is increasingly important as a tool to aid decision makers concerning the allocation of scarce resources within the health care sector. A quality-adjusted life year is a measure of life expectancy that is weighted by health-related quality of life. These weights are referred to as utility scores and are usually measured by multiattribute utility measures. Several studies found that different utility measures provide different estimates of the same person's level of utility. The aim of this study was to investigate which of two widely used utility measures, the EQ-5D and the HUI mark III, is preferred in a tinnitus population.Baseline and follow-up data on EQ-5D and HUI mark III of 429 patients of a randomized controlled clinical trial, investigating cost-effectiveness of usual care versus specialized care of tinnitus, were included. Agreement, discriminative power, and responsiveness of the health state description and the utility scores were examined.Corresponding dimensions of the EQ-5D and HUI mark III showed large correlations; although ceiling effects were more frequently observed in the EQ-5D. Mean utility scores for EQ-5D (0.77; SD 0.22) and HUI mark III (0.64; SD 0.28) were significantly different (Wilcoxon signed ranks test, p < 0.001), and agreement was low to moderate (intraclass correlation coefficient = 0.53). Both health state description and utility scores of both measures discriminated between different severity groups. These groups were based on baseline scores of the Tinnitus Questionnaire. The HUI mark III had a higher ability than the EQ-5D to detect improved patients from randomly selected pairs of improved and unimproved patients.This study shows that different utility measures lead to different health state descriptions and utility scores among tinnitus patients. However, both measures are capable of discriminating between clinically different groups. The HUI mark III is more responsive than the EQ-5D, and therefore preferred in a tinnitus population.The epidemiology and impact of dyspepsia in rural Asia remains uncertain. We aimed to determine the prevalence epidemiology and impact of dyspepsia in a rural Malaysian community.A door-to-door survey was conducted in a representative rural population in Malaysia. Dyspepsia was defined according to the Rome II criteria, and health-related quality of life (HRQOL) was assessed using the Euroqol (EQ-5D) instrument.Of 2,260 adults, 2,000 (88.5%) completed the survey. The mean age of respondents was 40.4+/-15.3 years, 62.7% were women, 79.0% were ethnic Malays, 8.4% had been educated up to the tertiary level, 49.7% were unemployed, and 63.4% resided in village-type housing with 49.1% having >8 residents per household. Dyspepsia was prevalent in 292 (14.6%) adults, and they had lower mean EQ-5D utility scores compared with healthy controls (0.91+/-0.17 vs. 0.97+/-0.08, P<0.0001). Dyspepsia was found to be associated with female gender (15.8 vs. 12.7% males, P=0.058), Chinese ethnicity (19.7 vs. 14.2% non-Chinese), higher education levels, medium-range incomes (19.1% medium range vs. 13.3% low range), non-village-type housing (16.3 vs. 13.5% village-type house, P=0.08), nonsmokers (18.7 vs. 13.7%, P=0.015), non-tea drinkers (19.5 vs. 12.3%, P<0.0001), regular analgesia intake (27 vs. 12.7%, P<0.0001), and adults with chronic illness (26.6 vs. 11.1%, P<0.0001). Logistic regression analysis showed that higher levels of education, i.e., secondary (odds ratio (OR) 2.13, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.15-3.93) and tertiary (2.70, 95% CI=1.30-5.62) education, non-village housing (OR 1.36, 95% CI=1.02-1.80), regular analgesia (OR 2.22, 95% CI=1.60-3.09), and chronic illness (OR 2.83, 95% CI=2.12-3.77) were independent risk factors for dyspepsia. Conversely, regular tea drinking (OR 0.59) seemed to have an inverse relationship.Dyspepsia in rural Malaysians is associated with a lower HRQOL. Epidemiological risk factors include a higher socioeconomic status, regular analgesic consumption, and chronic illness.There is little information of the validity of generic instruments in measuring health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in patients with dyspepsia. We aimed to assess the reliability and validity of the EQ-5D, a brief and simple instrument, in measuring HRQOL in adult patients with dyspepsia.Consecutive adults with dyspepsia attending the Gastroenterology clinic in a tertiary referral center were interviewed with the EQ-5D (both English and Malay versions), the short-form Nepean Dyspepsia Index (SF-NDI), the SF-36 and Leeds Dyspepsia Questionnaire (LDQ). Known-groups and convergent construct validity were investigated by testing hypotheses at attribute and overall levels. A repeat telephone interview was conducted 2 weeks later to assess test-retest reliability.A total of 113 patients (mean (SD) age: 53.7 (14) years; 49.5% male; 24.8% Malays, 37.2% Chinese; 70.8% functional dyspepsia) were recruited. Response rate was 100% with nil missing data. Known-groups validation revealed 20/26 hypotheses fulfillment. Patients with more severe dyspepsia reported more problems with their usual activity (p = 0.07) and pain (p = 0.06) and demonstrated lower median VAS scores (60 vs 70, p = 0.002) and EQ-5D utility scores (0.72 vs 0.78, p = 0.002). Those reporting problems in various EQ-5D dimensions had significantly lower scores in relevant SF-36 and SF-NDI dimensions. The overall EQ-5D utility score also demonstrated good correlation with the SF-36 summary physical and mental scores and the SF-NDI total score. Intraclass correlation coefficient for test-retest reliability was 0.66 (95% CI = 0.55 - 0.76).The EQ-5D is an acceptable, valid and reliable generic instrument for measuring HRQOL in adult patients with dyspepsia.In the United Kingdom patient-reported outcome measures (PROMS) have been adopted as a key measure of foot surgery outcomes. The intention of this study was to evaluate the responsiveness of a regional outcome measure; the Manchester Oxford Foot Questionnaire (MOXFQ) and a generic measure; the EuroQol EQ-5D, in the context of day care Podiatric Surgery.A prospective audit of 375 consecutive day care surgical admissions was undertaken. All patients attending for surgery, who agreed to participate, were included. Pre operation patients completed the MOXFQ and the EQ-5D. Both questionnaires were completed again at 6 months post operation. Additional data was collected on patient demographics, surgical procedures and complications.Few complications were encountered and most patients (84%) returned for a final review 6 months post operation. Mean MOXFQ scores improved for each domain: pain; 51.7 pre-operation, reduced to 16.5 post-operation, walking; 50.2 reduced to 14.1 and social interaction; 45.7 reduced to 10.6. The minimal clinically important differences (MCID) estimates for the pain domain were exceeded by 82.6% of patients, while 74.8% exceeded the MCID for walking and 68.5% exceeded the MCID for social interaction. A small number of patients (2.9%) deteriorated across all three MOXFQ domains.The EQ-5D Index, summary of health related quality of life, improved from 0.66 pre-operation to 0.86 post operation. The EQ-5D index MCID was exceeded by 79.2% of patients. Index scores deteriorated for 1.8% of patients following surgery. Effect sizes measured following surgery were largest for the MOXFQ domains: Walking; 1.39, Pain; 1.52 and Social Interaction: 1.39. The EQ-5D index effect size was 0.83. The EQ-5D visual analogue scale (VAS) was not influenced by surgery.Both the MOXFQ and EQ-5D index (but not the VAS) appear sensitive to changes in health status at 6 months following elective foot surgery. Both instruments were particularly responsive to changes in pain, mobility and activity or social interaction following treatment. The MOXFQ was developed specifically for foot surgery and as such appears to be the more sensitive instrument. However the generic EQ-5D may allow comparison of general health states in the wider health community. Both instruments when used together appear well suited to the measurement of change in perceived health status following foot surgery.The outcomes of hallux valgus surgery will be measured with reference to two discrete measures of health related quality of life (HRQOL). Clinical, radiographic outcomes and patient satisfaction will also be considered.To assess health related quality of life following rotation scarf and Akin's osteotomies.A prospective clinical audit of 71 consecutive patients undergoing surgical repair of hallux valgus. Outcomes included the Manchester Oxford Foot Questionnaire (MOXFQ), EQ-5D, clinical measures, radiographic measures and patient satisfaction.The mean MOXFQ scores improved across the three domains. Walking/standing improved from 54.2 (s.d. 21.4) pre operation to 12 (s.d. 18.1) post operation. Pain improved from 60 (s.d. 19.3) to 15 (s.d. 16.9). Social interaction improved from 53.8 (s.d. 21) to 19.1 (14.6). The improvement in each category was significant, p < 0.0001. EQ-5D scores also improved following intervention. AOFAS scores improved from a pre operation mean of 52.1 to 93.3 post operation (p < 0.0001). All radiographic measures significantly improved (p < 0.0001).Assessment of outcomes following surgical intervention is of critical importance to the foot surgeon. This study has demonstrated that the combined rotation scarf and Akin's procedure is a reliable procedure, capable of improving a patient's HRQOL.Decompressive craniectomy is used regularly in traumatic brain injury (TBI) and malignant middle cerebral artery infarction. Its benefits for other causes of non-traumatic brain swelling, if any, are unclear, especially after a devastating primary event.We evaluated the outcomes as well as treatment costs of all emergency decompressive craniectomies performed between the 2000 and 2006 in a single institution to lower intractable intracranial pressure, excluding the standard indications TBI and malignant middle cerebral infarction. The health-related quality of life (HRQoL) was evaluated on the Euroqol (EQ-5D) scale, and cost of a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) calculated.The overall 3-year mortality rate was 62% for subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH, 29 patients) and 31% for other neurological emergencies (13 patients). Patients with SAH were on average 13 years older than the other indications mean. Of the non-survivors, 45% died within a month and 95% within 1 year. Median EQ-5D index values were poor (0.15 for SAH and 0.62 for the other emergencies, versus 0.85 for the normal population), but of the survivors, 73% and 89% were able to live at home. The cost of neurosurgical treatment for one QALY was 11,000 € for SAH and 2000 € for other emergencies.Mortality after non-traumatic neurological emergencies leading to decompressive craniectomy was high, and the HRQoL index of the survivors was poor. Most survivors were, however, able to live at home, and the cost of neurosurgical treatment for a QALY gained was acceptable.The aim of this study was to analyze the clinical outcome of severely ill neurosurgical patients whose need for artificial life support was extended. We sought to determine whether these patients benefit from extended treatment both in life expectancy and quality of life. Furthermore, we evaluated the direct cost of the neurosurgical treatment.The study group comprised a consecutive series of 346 neurosurgical patients in poor condition who were discharged from the intensive care unit but still in need of artificial respiratory support. The patients had various neurosurgical diagnoses and were treated between 2000 and 2003 at the Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital. We followed the outcome of these patients by specially formatted questionnaires 6 months and 1, 2, and 5 years after treatment. Their health-related quality of life was evaluated with EuroQol EQ-5D; quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained with the treatment and the costs of a QALY were calculated.The median follow-up time was 5 years. The mortality rate was 27% at 30 days, 45% at 1 year, and 59% at 5 years after treatment. Of the patients, 20% had a good recovery (Glasgow Outcome Scale [GOS] scores 4 and 5), 18% had severe disability (GOS score 3), none was in a vegetative state (GOS score 2), 59% were dead (GOS score 1), and 3% were lost to follow-up. Of the survivors, 69% lived at home, 22% in a nursing home, 2% were in a hospital, and 7% were lost to follow-up. The median EQ-5D index value was lower than the median index value for the general population: 0.71 (25th percentile [Q1] 0.38 and 75th percentile [Q3] 0.85) versus 0.85 (Q1 0.73 and Q3 1.00). The median cost of the direct neurosurgical treatment per patient was 15,000 euros (25th percentile, 10,000 euros 75th percentile, 22,000 euros). Surviving patients gained a mean of 17 +/- 13 QALYs. The cost of 1 QALY was 2521 euros.Prolonged intensive care unit and step-down unit treatment of critically ill neurosurgical patients seems to be clinically justified. Moreover, direct costs of neurosurgical treatment were reasonably low.Patients with failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS) and chronic neuropathic pain experience levels of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) that are considerably lower than those reported in other areas of chronic pain. The aim of this article was to quantify the extent to which reductions in (leg and back) pain and disability over time translate into improvements in generic HRQoL as measured by the EuroQoL-5D and SF-36 instruments.Using data from the multinational Prospective, Randomized, Controlled, Multicenter Study of Patients with Failed Back Surgery Syndrome trial, we explore the relationship between generic HRQoL--assessed using two instruments often used in clinical trials (i.e., the SF-36 and EuroQol-5D)--and disease-specific outcome measures (i.e., Oswestry disability index [ODI], leg and back pain visual analog scale [VAS]) in neuropathic patients with FBSS.In our sample of 100 FBSS patients, generic HRQoL was moderately associated with ODI (correlation coefficient: -0.462 to -0.638) and mildly associated with leg pain VAS (correlation coefficient: -0.165 to -0.436). The multilevel regression analysis results indicate that functional ability (as measured by the ODI) is significantly associated with HRQoL, regardless of the generic HRQoL instrument used. On the other hand, changes over time in leg pain were significantly associated with changes in the EuroQoL-5D and physical component summary scores, but not with the mental component summary score.Reduction in leg pain and functional disability is statistically significantly associated with improvements in generic HRQoL. This is the first study to investigate the longitudinal relationship between generic and disease-specific HRQoL of neuropathic pain patients with FBSS, using multinational data.Patient-orientated outcome questionnaires are essential for the assessment of treatment success in spine care. Standardisation of the instruments used is necessary for comparison across studies and in registries. The Core Outcome Measures Index (COMI) is a short, multidimensional outcome instrument validated for patients with spinal disorders and is the recommended outcome instrument in the Spine Society of Europe Spine Tango Registry; currently, no validated Italian version exists. A cross-cultural adaptation of the COMI into Italian was carried out using established guidelines. 96 outpatients with chronic back problems (>3 months) were recruited from five practices in Switzerland and Italy. They completed the newly translated COMI, the Roland Morris disability (RM), adjectival pain rating, WHO Quality of Life (WHOQoL), EuroQoL-5D, and EuroQoL-VAS scales. Reproducibility was assessed in a subgroup of 63 patients who returned a second questionnaire within 1 month and indicated no change in back status on a 5-point Likert-scale transition question. The COMI scores displayed no floor or ceiling effects. On re-test, the responses for each individual domain of the COMI were within one category in 100% patients for "function", 92% for "symptom-specific well-being", 100% for "general quality of life", 90% for "social disability", and 98% for "work disability". The intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC(2,1)) for the COMI back and leg pain items were 0.78 and 0.82, respectively, and for the COMI summary index, 0.92 (95% CI 0.86-0.95); this compared well with 0.84 for RM, 0.87 for WHOQoL, 0.79 for EQ-5D, and 0.77 for EQ-VAS. The standard error of measurement (SEM) for COMI was 0.54 points, giving a ''minimum detectable change'' for the COMI of 1.5 points. The scores for most of the individual COMI domains and the COMI summary index correlated to the expected extent (0.4-0.8) with the corresponding full-length reference questionnaires (r = 0.45-0.72). The reproducibility of the Italian version of the COMI was comparable to that published for the German and Spanish versions. The COMI scores correlated in the expected manner with existing but considerably longer questionnaires suggesting adequate convergent validity for the COMI. The Italian COMI represents a practical, reliable, and valid tool for use with Italian-speaking patients and will be of value for international studies and surgical registries.The health impact of acquired brain injury (ABI) is not only apparent in the patient, but also in the loss of health related quality of life (HRQol) of their carers. The objectives of this study were to measure the loss of HRQol as well as the burden of the carers of patients with ABI.A retrospective study was conducted with 76 carers of patients with ABI. A questionnaire was used to collect information on the sociodemographic aspects, carer burden (Zarit Scale) and the HRQol (EuroQol Questionnaire) of the carers. A multiple linear regression model was constructed to analyse the effect of the different variables.The carers were predominantly women over 50 years, retired or dedicated to domestic tasks and who cared for their husband or one of their parents. One third showed a high risk of claudication. The mean HRQol obtained with the EuroQol went from a similar score to that of the general population (0.9) in the group without burden, to 0.67 in the group with risk of claudication. The regression models explained the burden better than the loss in quality of life.Carers of patients with brain injury suffer a significant loss in HRQol compared to the general population. The deterioration arises from the mental dimensions and depends on the level of burden.The aim of this study was to investigate changes of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) at one year post myocardial revascularization (CABG) and post aortic valve replacement (AVR) in patients aged 70 years or older.Of 102 CABG patients and 69 AVR patients preoperative and follow-up data on QOL, were completed. For assessing HRQoL, the EuroQol instrument (EQ) was used. The EQ-5D index score was calculated, based on separate scores of 5 health domains, to express the global health status of the patient. The EQ visual analogue scale (VAS) was used to describe patients' subjective HRQoL.At one year postoperative, the EQ-5D index of the CABG group shows a significant increase (P=0.038), while that of the AVR group does not (P=0.26). The EQ-VAS registration, however, shows a significant increase for both the CABG group (P=0.003) and the AVR group (P=0.021). Considering the 5 domains of the registered HRQOL, in the AVR group only the calculated mean of the item "pain and discomfort" shows a significantly better score postoperatively (P=0.006). In the CABG group, mobility (P=0.016), pain and discomfort (P=0.15) and anxiety (P=0.036) get significantly better scores postoperatively. In conclusion, in elderly patients HRQOL strongly increases after CABG and AVR. However the improvement of functional and social quality of life is less far-going in patients undergoing AVR than in CABG patients.Of 415 patients, 200 undergoing aortic valve replacement (AVR) and 215 undergoing AVR in combination with myocardial revascularization [coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG)], had complete preoperative health-related quality of life (HRQOL) data. From this group, 224 patients had a follow-up of one year. To assess HRQOL, the EuroQol instrument was used. The EQ-5D index score was calculated, based on separate scores from five health domains, to express the global health status of the patient. The EQ visual analogue scale (VAS) was used to describe patients' subjective HRQOL. At baseline, the EQ-5D showed no significant differences between the two groups. The EQ-VAS score, however, was statistically significantly lower in the AVR+CABG patients (P=0.031). At one year postoperatively, both groups showed a statistically significant increase in the EQ-VAS (P=0.001 and P=0.001, respectively) and the EQ-5D (P=0.001 and P=0.001, respectively). This increase, however, could only be ascertained for the domain 'pain/discomfort' (P=0.001) in the AVR group, and for 'mobility' (P=0.018), 'usual activities' (P=0.001), 'pain/discomfort' (P=0.001) and 'anxiety/depression' (P=0.001) in the AVR+CABG group. At baseline, coronary artery disease had a negative influence on the patients' HRQOL, especially on the EQ-VAS. Postoperatively, all patients experienced significantly better HRQOL. However, the patients undergoing combined surgery experienced more benefit from their operation.Some oral antihyperglycemic agents may increase risk of hypoglycemia and thereby reduce patient quality of life. Our objective was to assess the impact of the severity and frequency of self-reported hypoglycemia on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) among patients with type 2 diabetes treated with oral antihyperglycemic agents.A follow-up survey was conducted in participants with self-reported type 2 diabetes treated with oral antihyperglycemic agents from the US National Health and Wellness Survey 2007. Data were collected on the severity and frequency of hypoglycemic episodes in the 6 months prior to the survey, with severity defined as mild (no interruption of activities), moderate (some interruption of activities), severe (needed assistance of others), or very severe (needed medical attention). HRQoL was assessed using the EuroQol-5D Questionnaire (EQ-5D) US weighted summary score (utility) and Worry subscale of the Hypoglycemia Fear Survey (HFS). Of the participants who completed the survey (N = 1,984), mean age was 58 years, 57% were male, 72% reported an HbA1c <7.0%, and 50% reported treatment with a sulfonylurea-containing regimen. Hypoglycemic episodes were reported by 63% of patients (46% mild, 37% moderate, 13% severe and 4% very severe). For patients reporting hypoglycemia, mean utility score was significantly lower (0.78 versus 0.86, p < 0.0001) and mean HFS score was significantly higher (17.5 versus 6.2, p < 0.0001) compared to patients not reporting hypoglycemia. Differences in mean scores between those with and without hypoglycemia increased with the level of severity (mild, moderate, severe, very severe) for utility (0.03, 0.09, 0.18, 0.23) and HFS (6.1, 13.9, 20.1, 25.6), respectively. After adjusting for age, gender, weight gain, HbA1c, microvascular complications, and selected cardiovascular conditions, the utility decrement was 0.045 (by level of severity: 0.009, 0.055, 0.131, 0.208), and the HFS increase was 9.6 (by severity: 5.3, 12.4, 17.6, 23.2). HRQoL further decreased with greater frequency of hypoglycemic episodes.Self-reported hypoglycemia is independently associated with lower HRQoL, and the magnitude of this reduction increases with both severity and frequency of episodes in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with oral antihyperglycemic agents.To examine the association between medication side-effects (SEs) and patient-reported outcomes (PROs) among patients with type 2 diabetes treated with oral antihyperglycaemic agents (OAHAs).A total of 1984 participants responded to an internet-based survey in the United States. Data were collected on hypoglycaemia 6 months and weight gain 12 months prior to the survey. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) was measured using the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D). Also administered were the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication v.1.4 (TSQM) and the Hypoglycaemia Fear Survey II (HFS).Symptoms of hypoglycaemia were reported by 62.9% of participants, and 36.9% reported weight gain. For those reporting hypoglycaemia, mean scores were lower for TSQM and EQ-5D and higher for HFS when compared with those with no symptoms (TSQM: 69.7 vs. 75.1; EQ-5D: 0.78 vs. 0.86; HFS: 17.5 vs. 6.2; all p < 0.0001). The same remained true when accounting for symptom severity, where severity was monotonically related with PRO scores (all p < 0.0001). Similarly, reported weight gain was associated with lower treatment satisfaction (69.0 vs. 73.3) and HRQoL (0.77 vs. 0.83), and increased fear of hypoglycaemia (15.7 vs. 11.8) (all p < 0.0001). In mixed linear regression analysis, the associations between medication SEs and PROs remained significant after adjusting for patient and disease characteristics.Among patients with type 2 diabetes treated with OAHAs, self-reported hypoglycaemia and weight gain were associated with decreased treatment satisfaction and HRQoL. In addition, the presence of these SEs was associated with increased fear of hypoglycaemia.This study sought to assess the psychometric attributes of the Quality of Life in Essential Tremor Questionnaire (QUEST) by undertaking an independent validation.This was an observational, multicenter, cross-sectional study carried out in Neurology Departments of general hospitals. The following assessments were applied: Louis Rating Scale, Clinical Assessment of Tremor, Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-ET), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), EQ-5D, and QUEST (Spanish version).One hundred and eighteen consecutive patients were included. According to the CGI-ET, most of patients had mild (42.4%) or moderate (43.2%) impact of tremor on performing daily activities. Fully computable QUEST data were 60.2%. The QUEST Summary Index (QUEST-SI) displayed marginal floor or ceiling effect. On the whole, QUEST internal consistency and reproducibility were satisfactory (Cronbach's alpha values: 0.73-0.86; QUEST-SI intraclass correlation coefficient: 0.77). Factor analysis identified eight factors (73.6% of the variance) that could be grouped into six, relatively coincident with the questionnaire's dimensions. The QUEST-SI correlated moderately with the EQ-5D index (r(S)=-0.40), HADS-Depression (r(S)=0.39), and CGI-ET (r(S)=0.39), and strongly with the QUEST scale for self-evaluation of tremor severity (r(S)=0.63). The standard error of measurement was 8.00.Apart from a substantial problem of acceptability, most of the tested psychometric attributes of the QUEST resulted satisfactory.Non-motor symptoms are detrimental to health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of Parkinson's disease patients. In this study, the Non-Motor Symptoms Scale (NMSS) was used to assess the impact of the non-motor symptoms on HRQoL of Parkinson's disease patients.In a multicenter, international, cross sectional study on 411 Parkinson's disease patients, the NMSS was applied along with clinical (Hoehn and Yahr staging and SCOPA-Motor) and HRQoL measures (PDQ-39, and EQ-5D). Prevalence of non-motor symptoms was determined also through the NMSS. The association of NMSS and SCOPA-Motor with HRQoL measures and the differences in HRQoL scores between patients with and without non-motor symptoms in each NMSS domain were estimated by non-parametric statistics. Predictors of HRQoL were sought through multiple linear regression analyses.Nocturia (68.4% of the sample), fatigue (65.9%), and dribbling saliva (56.7%), were the most frequent complaints. Total NMSS score: (1) showed a higher correlation coefficient (r(S) = 0.70) with the PDQ-39 Summary Index (SI) than SCOPA-Motor (r(S) = 0.58); (2) showed high-moderate correlation (r(S) = 0.60 - 0.38) with all PDQ-39 domains; and (3) was the best predictor of HRQoL as measured by the PDQ-39 SI. For each NMSS domain, patients with symptoms had significantly worse HRQoL scores than patients without symptoms.To our knowledge, this is the first study to determine in a holistic manner the impact of the non-motor symptoms on HRQoL of Parkinson's disease patients. The results show that non-motor symptoms have, as a whole, a greater impact on HRQoL than motor symptoms and non-motor symptoms progression contributes importantly to HRQoL decline in patients with Parkinson's disease.Wilson disease is genetically induced failure of copper metabolism. If untreated, it may lead to death within several years from the onset of symptoms. Use of medication should therefore continue over the whole span of the patient's life after the diagnosis. Clinical observations show that patients with Wilson disease frequently stop the treatment. The aim of our study was to assess how drug compliance (defined as persistence with drug use) translates into the total well-being of patients with Wilson disease.Patients diagnosed with Wilson disease and observed in our outpatient clinics were asked to fill in the self-completed questionnaire. Questions were related to demographic data, characteristics of the disease, methods of treatment and persistence with treatment, subjective assessment of health status and treatment efficacy. The EQ-5D questionnaire with a visual analogue scale of well-being was also used.Responses were obtained from 120 subjects but only 104 questionnaires could be further processed. Our analysis did not reveal differences in persistence with d-penicillamine and zinc sulphate use or efficacy of prescribed medication. We found, however, that regardless of the medication used, persistence with treatment resulted in significantly better results of self-assessment (total improvement in 39.7% vs. 7.7% in the non-persistent group, p = 0.003; partial improvement in 53.8% vs. 30.8%, respectively, p = 0.045; and deterioration: none in the persistent group vs. 42.3% in the non-persistent group, p < 0.0001).Lack of persistence with use of prescribed medication is rather frequent among patients with Wilson disease. Lack of compliance decreases chances for improvement and might be the cause of clinical deterioration.The Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF) is widely used for assessing pain in clinical and research studies. The worst pain rating is often the primary outcome of interest; yet, no published data are available on its minimally important difference (MID). Breast cancer patients with bone metastases enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, phase III study comparing denosumab with zoledronic acid for preventing skeletal related events and completed the BPI-SF, FACT-B, and EQ-5 Datbaseline, week 5, and monthly through the end of the study. Anchor-and distribution-based MID estimates were computed. Data from 1,564 patients were available. Spearman correlation coefficients for anchors ranged from 0.33-0.65. Mean change scores for worst pain ratings corresponding to one-category improvement in each anchor were 0.26-1.04 for BPI-SF current pain, -1.40 to -2.42 for EQ-5D Index score, 1.71-1.98 for EQ-5D Pain item, -2.22 to -0.51 for FACT-BTOI, -1.61 to -0.16 for FACT-G Physical, and -1.31 to -0.12 for FACT-G total. Distribution-based results were ISEM = 1.6, 0.5 effect size = 1.4, and Guyatt's statistic = 1.4. Combining anchor-and distribution-based results yielded a two-point MID estimate. An MID estimate of two points is useful for interpreting how much change in worst pain is considered clinically meaningful.In short-term studies, testosterone replacement therapy has been shown to protect male subjects from exercise-induced ischaemia and modify cardiovascular risk factors such as insulin resistance, fat mass and lipid profiles.This randomised parallel group controlled trial was designed to assess the treatment effect of testosterone therapy (Nebido) compared with placebo in terms of exercise-induced ischaemia, lipid profiles, carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) and body composition during 12 months treatment in men with low testosterone levels and angina.A total of 15 men were recruited but 13 (n=13) reached adequate duration of follow-up; seven were treated with testosterone and six with placebo. Testosterone increased time to ischaemia (129+/-48 s versus 12+/-18, P=0.02) and haemoglobin (0.4+/-0.6 g/dl versus -0.03+/-0.5, P=0.04), and reduced body mass index (-0.3 kg/m(2) versus 1.3+/-1, P=0.04) and triglycerides (-0.36+/-0.4 mmol/l versus 0.3+/-1.2, P=0.05). The CIMT decreased in the testosterone group more than placebo, but full between group analyses suggested this was only a statistical trend (-0.5+/-0.1 vs -0.09+/-0.06, P=0.16). There were no significant effects on serum prostate specific antigen, total or high-density lipoprotein cholesterol; or on mood and symptom scores as assessed by Seattle Angina Score and EuroQol.The protective effect of testosterone on myocardial ischaemia is maintained throughout treatment without decrement. Previously noted potentially beneficial effects of testosterone on body composition were confirmed and there were no adverse effects.Both intramedullary nails and sliding hip screws are used with good results in the treatment of intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric fractures. The aim of our study was to assess whether use of the TRIGEN INTERTAN nail, as compared with a sliding hip screw, resulted in less postoperative pain, improved functional mobility, and reduced surgical complication rates for patients with an intertrochanteric or subtrochanteric fracture.In a prospective, randomized multicenter study, 684 elderly patients were treated with the INTERTAN nail or with a sliding hip screw with or without a trochanteric stabilizing plate. The patients were assessed during their hospital stay and at three and twelve months postoperatively. A visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score was recorded at all time points, and functional mobility was assessed with use of the timed Up & Go test. The Harris hip score (HHS) was used to assess hip function more specifically. Quality of life was measured with the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D). Radiographic findings as well as intraoperative and postoperative complications were recorded and analyzed.Patients treated with an INTERTAN nail had slightly less pain at the time of early postoperative mobilization (VAS score, 48 versus 52; p = 0.042), although this did not influence the length of the hospital stay and there was no difference at three or twelve months. Regardless of the fracture and implant type, functional mobility, hip function, patient satisfaction, and quality-of-life assessments were comparable between the groups at three and twelve months. The numbers of patients with surgical complications were similar for the two groups (twenty-nine in the sliding-hip-screw group and thirty-two in the INTERTAN group, p = 0.67).INTERTAN nails and sliding hip screws are similar in terms of pain, function, and reoperation rates twelve months after treatment of intertrochanteric and subtrochanteric fractures.Hidradenitis suppurativa is a recurrent, debilitating suppurative skin disease. The symptoms are much more than just physical, but studies of its impact on patients' psychological state and related quality of life are very limited. The current study was conducted with a group of 54 patients, aged 16-65 years, who had an active, but stable, course of hidradenitis suppurativa. The aim of the study was to determine the influence of hidradenitis suppurativa on a broad spectrum of psychophysical factors. Assessment was carried out using several questionnaires, which revealed the following mean scores: Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) (12.67 +/- 7.7), Beck Depression Inventory-Short Form (BDI-SF) (5.87 +/- 4.68), Evers et al. "6-Item Scale" (3.87 +/- 3.65), EQ-5D (0.66 +/- 0.23 (health index) and 56.78 +/- 18.84 (VAS)), Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue scale (FACIT-F) (32.06 +/- 11.01) and Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire Short Form (Q-LES-Q-SF) (56.44 +/- 15.17%). The results highlight the important impact of hidradenitis suppurativa on a wide spectrum of psychophysical aspects and impairment of related quality of life among patients. Our findings indicate that advancement of the disease seems to be the most important factor negatively influencing patients' well-being (p < 0.01). It is noteworthy that an anogenital location appears to impair the hidradenitis suppurativa patients' quality of life most of all (p < 0.05), but the occurrence of lesions on uncovered skin plays a crucial role in the stigmatization level (p < 0.05).To describe self-perceived health status and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in healthy individuals of working age, to measure changes due to influenza infection, and to evaluate the effect of influenza infection on HRQoL in monetary terms.We performed a descriptive observational study through questionnaires administered to 50 patients of working age infected with the influenza virus during the epidemiologic year 2004-2005 and living in private homes of the city of Logroño (Spain). The patients completed the questionnaires twice: with and without influenza. The dimensions and HRQoL indicators of the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) questionnaire were evaluated. HRQoL utility indices were used to calculate lost quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).On average, the reduction in the HRQoL utility index caused by influenza infection was between 0.37 and 0.65, on a scale from 0 (death) to 1 (perfect health). An influenza epidemic in 100,000 individuals could imply a loss of 137 QALYs, which in monetary terms could represent 2,722,609euro.The EQ-5D dimension most negatively affected by influenza was <daily activities> while the least affected dimension was <anxiety/depression>. Influenza causes substantial losses in HRQoL among the population of working age. The results of the sensitivity analysis of the monetary effects of influenza infection yielded intervals showing a range of more than 5 times the mean value.The study objective was to ascertain outcomes with the Swedish adjustable gastric band (SAGB) on an intention-to-treat basis in multiple centers across the French social health insurance system. SAGB results at 3-year follow-up are reported. The noncomparative, observational, prospective, consecutive cohort study design sought a 500-patient minimum recruitment geographically representative of continental France. Safety (adverse events [AEs], device-related morbidity, and mortality) and effectiveness (change in body mass index [BMI, kilograms per square meter], percentage excess weight loss, comorbidities, quality of life [QoL]) were assessed. Adjustable gastric band survival was calculated. Thirty-one surgeons in 28 multidisciplinary teams/sites enrolled patients between September 2, 2007 and April 30, 2008. SAGB was successfully implanted in 517 patients: 88.0 % female; mean age, 37.5 years; obesity duration, 15.3 years (baseline: mean BMI, 41.0; comorbidities, 773 in 74.3 % of patients; Bariatric Analysis and Reporting Outcome System (BAROS), 1.4; EuroQoL 5-Dimensions (EQ-5D), 0.61; EuroQoL-visual analog scale (EQ-VAS), 52.3). At 3 years: BMI, 32.2 (mean change, -9.0; p < 0.0001); excess weight loss, 47.4 %; comorbidities, 161 in 27.2 %; BAROS, 3.6 (+2.2, p < 0.0001); EQ-5D, 0.84 (+0.22, p < 0.0001); EQ-VAS, 73.4 (+21.4, p < 0.0001). SAGB-induced weight loss was associated with substantially improved QoL. One death occurred and was unrelated to the treatment. No AE was reported in 68.3 % of patients, and no confirmed device-related AE in 77.0 %. Overall AE rate was 0.19 per patient year. Device retention was 87.0 %. Analysis of patients lost to follow-up showed a nonsignificant effect on overall study results. In a prospective, consecutive cohort, "real-world", nationwide study, the Swedish Adjustable Gastric Band was found safe and effective at 3-year follow-up.Patient-oriented questionnaires are indispensable in the assessment of surgical outcome. The psychometric properties of a brief multidimensional instrument were examined in patients with inguinal hernia undergoing surgery.Fifty-one patients (mean(s.d.) age 50·6(17·4) years; 48 men) participated. The following questionnaire properties were assessed for the Core Outcome Measures Index adapted for patients with hernia (COMI-hernia) and the EuroQol: practicability, floor and ceiling effects, test-retest reliability (over 2 weeks), construct validity (by comparison with other relevant scales) and responsiveness 9 months after surgery as standardized response mean (SRM).The questionnaires were easy to implement and well accepted by the patients. Ceiling effects at baseline were 2 per cent for the COMI-hernia, 8 per cent for EuroQol-visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) and 35 per cent for EuroQol-Five Dimensions (EQ-5D); no instrument showed floor effects. The reproducibility of individual COMI-hernia items was good, with test-retest differences within one grade ranging from 41 of 45 for 'social/work disability' to 44 of 45 for 'general quality of life'. The intraclass correlation coefficients were moderately high for COMI-hernia (0·74) and EQ-VAS (0·77), but low for EQ-5D (0·43). COMI-hernia scores correlated in the expected manner with related scales (r = 0·42-0·72, P < 0·050). COMI-hernia was the most responsive instrument (SRM 1·42).The COMI-hernia and EQ-VAS general health scale represent reliable, valid and sensitive tools for assessing multidimensional outcome in patients with inguinal hernia undergoing surgical treatment.